some tart fruit mix with green make a nice contrast with rich meat dish ( see orang and onion salad , page 111 ) , but if you like to follow the meat cours with sweet fruit , it seem wiser to serv it plain with a good sharp chees and let it take the place of a sweet or dessert cours . if you insist on serv fruit as a salad , do n't cut it into cube and mix it up . 
 to increas amount of stuf , preserv ratio of half as much mushroom as bread . capon stuf in this manner would most like be serv with pan-fri potato , broccoli , or cauliflow brown in oil . 
 add a pinch of mace if desired. serv hot or chilled. serv 6 to 8 . 
 chill until firm . break up light with a fork befor serv and garnish each portion with a mint leaf . serv 6 to 8 . 
 with black bean : substitut black bean for the split pea and flavor with madeira or sherri wine. serv with lemon slices. with white pea bean : substitut white pea bean for the split pea and serv top with crumbl bacon bit . 
 accord to the nation restaur associ , about 50 % of new restaur fail in their first year , 65 % within two years. general mill itself has bankrol a coupl of flop in recent year -- includ betti crocker treehous , which serv pie on elev tabl to the sound of tape-record bird chirp . 
 with consider justic , it can be said that england 's second success coloni , plymouth , began in an ancient yorkshir inn besid the royal road lead from london to scotland . here william brewster , between serv food and ale and suppli fresh hors for stagecoach , risk his life to support the spread of religi freedom . 
 chill . add the chop hard-cook egg befor serv . garnish with cucumb slice and serv with an ice cube or two in each soup plate. serv 6 . 
 codfish is a major item in the portugues diet . it is serv so often that some tourist in portug joke insist that lunch consist of codfish and potato , and that dinner consist of potato and codfish . 
 garnish with grate coconut or shred toast almond . serv 4 . 
 abov us through the window in the roof , the neighbor children peek through and giggl as they watch the stranger who had come to their villag . then our meal was serv , and it was obvious there had been great prepar for us . 
 would everyon be will to get up for 6 a.m. mass on sunday so jack could accept a nine-o'clock golf invit ? jack 's son help clear the tabl , and his wife serv coffe and dessert . 
 pound cake was a favorit throughout the south . it was serv at both mount vernon and williamsburg . 
 bake in a dg325 oven for 35 minutes. serv with melt butter . 
 `` i am , `` she tell her mother , take a huge bite . the food is serv from aluminum trolley wheel down the aisl by member in rubber apron who have been assign a three-month hitch work in the kitchen . 
 with a sharp knife , remov the bone and carv the steak diagon in long strips. serv with bearnais sauc , sauc diabl , wine merchant 's sauc ( see sauc ) , mustard or horseradish. if you insist on serv catsup , heat it first . 
 she invit me to see the hous where she , her husband and her daughter now live . while she serv me cherri in the parlor , she told me of her son who attend an american univers . 
 size doe not affect the tast , but it 's wise to buy those that are uniform in thick so that they will all cook in the same amount of time . besid be delici in vichyssois and other soup and stew , leek are a delic and tasti veget , serv hot or cold . 
 heat and blend , add 1/2 cup of orang section ( peel ) and heat them through. pour this rich sauc over the duck and serv with a barley and mushroom casserol and an endiv salad mix with tini , whole beet . 
 sprinkl with cinnamon , a few grate of nutmeg or chop parsley . serv 4 . 
 hopeless out of it was the person who somehow did not manag to squeez that sentenc into his convers . the same year , 1923 , a survey show that more than 5,000 `` speakeasi `` hideaway where illeg liquor was serv exist in new york citi . 
 roast as you do fresh ham ( page 309 ) but allow 45 minut to the pound. serv with the same accompani . 
 but the 60s comparison was apt , if not in the quantiti of the mobe , at least in the name and face of it upper crust. on the capitol step , rope off from their congreg into a vip area where they were serv complimentari appl juic and trail mix , daniel ellsberg hug william sloan coffin , abbi hoffman peck allen ginsberg on the cheek , and dr. spock threw back his hoari head when jess jackson told a joke . 
 howev , contemporari author suspect that greater attent was given to the christma feast . among food known to have been serv were game pie , oyster , and wild duck . 
 to poach egg hard , cook them for 4-1/2 minut . these are often serv cold in aspic , or as garnish for salad platter . 
 arrang the sauerkraut on a larg platter and top with slice of the meat. serv with boil potato steam dri , hot appl sauc , plenti of crisp bread and cold beer . 
 add nutmeg and adjust season . sprinkl each serv with coars chop spinach leav . if desir , serv yoghurt as a topping. serv 4 to 6 . 
 cook for 5 to 10 minut more . serv 6 . 
 otherwis it will be tough. serv the hot slice of steak on hot toast and butter french bread . 
 we re go to ride hors and everyth . `` the coffe shop serv a cooki seal in cellophan with it milk shake , and i broke the wrap and took out my cooki . 
 this is best prepar in advanc and reheat . serv 6 to 8 . the follow recip for goos stuf with fruit and serv with rice is probabl a result of german and southern cookeri meet . 
 chill soup. top with whip cream and serv with rusk . 
 it had been a blow to him to find oriana betroth , and to such a specimen ; it was increas uncomfort to be in major venabl 's compani , and to endur his gloomi stare . we were serv an excel dinner , which i heartili enjoy , but the convers at tabl had an advers effect on hotchkiss 's appetit . 
 forty-eight patient were admit to the hospit , as mani were discharg . about 2,000 meal were prepar and serv to the patient and employe . 
 heat through , but do not let boil. tast for season and serv hot. serv 6 . 
 if it seem a littl dull , perhap it need a dash of lemon juic or a bit of grate onion. serv salad chill but not ici cold . 
 you can even get good food now if you re will to pay for it . `` in his eager to interject himself , simon lean so far across ladi rudd that michael was temporarili block from serv him the soup . 
 float appl slice on top . serv 6 . 
 a continu struggl . `` she serv the inevit cup of coffe and some crumbl piec of home-mad fudg that edith cohen has sent over in a cake tin . `` 
 as soon as a batch of fritter is done , put them in a dg200 oven until all the corn mixtur is use up and the last batch of fritter is cook . these fritter may be serv with or without mapl syrup . 
 sam talk to this man with great interest . dr. curri should have made great chang in the cook and serv of food here at sinai . 
 drop by spoon on top of the soup and sprinkl with cinnamon sugar or grate lemon rind . serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` cousin torquil ! `` `` dinner is serv , my ladi , `` announc pennymor . 
 chill until set. break up with a fork and serv in soup cup . 
 add madeira wine . serv 4 to 6 . 
 scrub the potato and cook in boil , salt water until done ( about 10 -- 15 minut , depend upon their size ) . serv in their jacket ( which make delici eat ) with melt butter pour over them . 
 he invit all the bank offici of the state to be his guest at a banquet in the new mansion . a sumptuous dinner was serv . 
 the mushroom should be done in 6 to 10 minutes. season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and serv on butter toast . 
 despit china 's dilig effort to remov all status symbol , hoos notic that `` the grade of the mao suit improv as you go up the ladder . `` senior offici serv the finest tea , natur scent dragon well . 
 cook for 1 minut only. cool and serv over vanilla ice cream , or serv with a rich custard sauc . 
 `` i shall take it , then , and you can give him my carriag and horses. do n't serv the dinner till seven o'clock . '' 
 a reward of l100 was offer to ani person give evid of a conspiraci . a fifteen-year-old wench who serv grog to sailor in a tough waterfront saloon was one of the wit . 
 add the saffron , clam , shrimp and lobster and simmer for about 15 minutes. add the mussel and serv . 
 with parsley : melt butter and add plenti of chop parsley. pour this over the chicken halv as you serv them . 
 pour into a mold or into 1-pound coffe tin , cover tight and steam accord to direct for steam lemon pud , page 111. serv with hard sauc , brandi sauc or brown sugar sauc , page 111-111 , v4 . 
 to eat , pick the berri up by their stem , dip in the sugar and nibbl . fresh strawberri light sugar and serv with plenti of heavi cream are delici . 
 cover with sauc mornay ( page 111 , v4 ) , sprinkl with grate parmesan chees and run under the broiler to brown . how often have you been serv fri egg swim in lukewarm greas and stare up at you with glaze orang eye ? 
 last summer , for exampl , culinova , the upscal brand for gourmet , unveil monterrey garden ravioli -- a vegetarian ravioli accompani by a green pepper stuf with black chili. despit the success of a similar dish serv by some in restaur , the general food version bomb . 
 liquid is ad , the pan is cover and the roll are cook until tender over low heat or in the oven . veal bird are usual serv with rice or noodl . 
 saut in hot butter until brown on both sides. serv with sauc soubis ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 `` the moscovit kentuckian it will be. and such love borsch we will serv , with sweet corn and ketchup . '' 
 this is an excel start point for an even on the squar . all the usual german-typ dish , well prepar and tast serv . 
 peel : if you like the skin remov , peel the potato after they are drain , season with salt and pepper and put back on the stove to dri and fluff. pour melt butter over them and serv . 
 a true french omelet is never flat or firm , but alway soft. serv plain or with ani of the sauc suggest for plain omelet . 
 pineappl come in various sizes. tini one from cuba will serv 2 or 3 persons. averag size pineappl of 2 pound will serv 4 to 6 person , and the huge varieti will easili serv 8 . 
 for a convent inform dinner parti , the aperitif period is adequ cover by a medium-dri or dri sherri , with the altern for non-sherry-drink of gin and vermouth , or orang juic . dri sherri , like other aperitif , is often serv chill . 
 season with salt and pepper , and reheat . stir in the cream just befor serv . serv 6 to 8 . 
 around 1800 we check in the offic for ani word of the alli invas . sinc noth was new , we decid to have an eleg dinner in town instead of the thin slice sandwich serv in the compound . 
 onion : the onion is perhap the most versatil member of the culinari armamentarium . not onli can it be serv in an infinit varieti of way , but it is one of the most wide use flavor in everi cours except dessert . 
 set asid to cool for sever hour or overnight . two hour befor serv , add the oliv oil , lemon juic , parsley and onion . 
 sprinkl with chop fresh coriand , parsley or chive . serv 4 to 6 . 
 sprinkl with chop fresh mint . serv 6 . 
 usual it is basket of slight sweet bun and mug of coffe brought in on tray . the entir congreg must be serv in the time space of three hymn , no easi task . 
 mix . just befor serv combin the content of both bowl , toss light , season with salt , fresh ground pepper , and accent . add french dress and serv . 
 garnish with chop parsley or chive , or butter crouton . serv 4 to 6 . 
 in all , bake 45 minutes. remov from the oven and serv pipe hot . 
 more women to whom the human , or at ani rate masculin , form is repugn enter and with avert eye set down pan of water , with a clatter serv the simultan function of awaken you from a much-need sleep . the soap float in the pan complet it resembl to the dumpl soup serv for dinner the night befor . 
 flavor with lemon juice. cool sauc and serv with cake. it is especi pretti serv from a glass dish with a silver ladl . 
 do not boil after the egg yolk have been added. serv hot or cold , garnish with mound of stiffli beaten egg white or whip cream . 
 this should take about 15 to 20 minutes. with chicken broth : use chicken broth for the water or stock , and serv the rice with a chicken dinner . 
 `` kutya should not be thick , `` say the ukrainian , for whom the dish is main ritualistic. `` kutya should be moist , but the liquid should not seep to the bottom , `` admonish polish-american who serv it as a dessert . 
 it is conduct with no small comfort and splendour . when there are ball , though there may be four hundr peopl at supper , there is a servant in scarlet and lace to attend upon everi four , and everi one is serv on silver . 
 chill. serv with a spoon of sour cream in each bowl and sprinkl with dill . 
 garnish each serv with tini rose geranium leav . serv 6 . 
 when the soup is done , skim off the fat . serv 6 to 8 . tradit , pot-au-feu is serv as follow : first , a bowl of broth . the meat and veget are arrang on a platter with boil potato and serv as the main cours , accompani by a select of good mustard , pickl and relish and good , crusti french bread . 
 this is an excel choic for a larg sunday brunch. it simplifi the cook and a 3-pound piec of bake canadian bacon will serv as mani as 10 person easili if you also serv egg . 
 bake at dg375 dg400 from 30 to 40 minutes. yield : one small loaf that will serv six contin peopl and bare four hungri ones. you can serv this wholesom treat as a meal in itself , still warm with sweet butter and a glass of milk . 
 moreov , mr. cantalupo has a slight militari manner. he is a propon of open restaur to serv breakfast virtual at the crack of dawn . 
 do not overcook chicken or it will be dri and tasteless. season to tast on the skin side and serv with shoestr potato , pea and onion mix , and hot french bread . 
 avoid those that are the least bit soft. one quart of gooseberri will serv 4 person ampli , and sometim 5 or 6 . 
 let us say parti time is three o'clock in the afternoon. we will serv : whip the cream until stiff . 
 the farm kitchen is a beehiv of activ , a center where marvel food is cook and bake , can and frozen . the last time i visit mae she serv roast pheasant . 
 in the three-month period end septemb 17 , 1966 , 33 such incid occur , and telephon employ were becom reluct to work on the west side. at the meet , one execut suggest that illinoi bell hold an open hous on the west side , serv refresh and explain the hardship on both the compani and the resid caus by this vandal . 
 on the bottom half of each toast , butter bun place a slice of raw onion , brush with a dab of mayonnais , add the cook hamburg and top with a slice of thin ripe tomato , hamburg relish , slice dill pickl and the top half of the butter bun . serv with addit relish , mustard and chili sauc , if you wish , but heat your chili sauc befor serv , becaus cold sauc is not invit with hot food . 
 i 'd have come down , mari . sinc when am i serv breakfast in bed unless i 'm sick ? `` 
 hamilton had order the meal earlier in the day , which was the point which had caus his friend to consent to ventur out . it was serv prompt . 
 pour the syrup over the pear and bake in a dg350 oven , bast frequent with the syrup , for 20 to 30 minut , or until the fruit is tender but not mushy. serv plain , hot or cold. or serv with cream . 
 when done , fat should be well cook out , and skin crisp and brown ( and delici ) . serv 4 . 
 the chief baker in hong kong , incit `` by the author , `` my father later told us , put arsenic in the dough , aim to poison certain english troop . grandpa , all unknow , serv the bread at his breakfast . 
 garnish with chop parsley or chive . serv 6 to 8 . 
 you must have some sort of arrang for keep the hot food hot a hot tray , chafe dish , candl warmer whatev 's avail . the various kind of fish which are eaten at the start are quit correct serv in their open tin . 
 at each place was a napkin , shape like a christma tree , and a place card with either a clothespin santa or an angel snap onto the top ( page 172 ) . when the guest had finish the main cours , mrs. dunn said , `` the cake we are serv is gateau des roi . `` 
 he had treat her ill , and had left her noth but her eye to cri with , her hous to live in and the privileg of refus her sympathi to all other unfortun peopl , becaus , as she use to say , she had suffer everyth that it was possibl to suffer. ( 1 at the hopit des capucins. ) ( 2 a work by fenelon , describ telemachus ' search for his father ulysses. ) ( 3 georg cadoud ( 1771-1804 ) was a soldier and intrigu ; charl pichegru ( 1761-1804 ) was a general. ) as sylvi , the stout cook , heard her mistress ' step , she made hast to serv the breakfast of the regular boarder . 
 that will do me good , too . `` `` are you veri busi ? `` ask gil delgado when the drink was serv . 
 cool in the sauc and then drain and chill. serv as an hor d'oeuvr . 
 strain and tast for seasoning. stir in the sherri and serv pipe hot . 
 alway arrang food and accessori so that they are most conveni for your guest . have the hot plate where peopl will start serv themselv . 
 there was the wake too earli ; the first cigarett , lie in bed ; the shabbi clamor of his bodi drag him back to schoolday and a handkerchief stuf guiltili out of sight in his tartan case ; mother 's rap on the door and entranc with a cup of tea , her hair in a net , her lip dri on a forehead sure even she would feel still sweat ; the tea go down , sooth , smooth out , till it hit the bowel ; and rise , he began the day . and breakfast , bright serv and delici cook , pleasur beyond belief after the bayswat gas-r , slice loaf and nescaf . 
 turn the heat up at the last to brown and crisp the outside. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with grill or fri onion and garlic bread . 
 place in oven and bake until syrup is absorb by bread , about 30 minutes. serv warm. serv 6 . 
 `` do ? whi , you put out your hand , say `` how do you fare ? `` and then serv her someth tea , i suppos , though they say she drink like a fish . '' 
 though onc a popular fare in seafood restaur throughout california , abalon is so expens that it has disappear from most menus. `` i 'd be happi to serv it , but the price is way too high , and i ca n't count on suppli , '' say scott bridg , the general manag of dant 's sea catch , a popular seafood restaur in san francisco . 
 self-servic from a buffet is the best answer to mani peopl and limit space. the food can be attract arrang so that the guest can serv themselv from one or two side of the tabl or buffet , then seat themselv inform both insid and outsid the hous if weather permit . 
 correct seasoning. serv hot or cold. serv 8 . 
 i prefer this dish unthicken , but if you like a thicker sauc , add small ball of butter and flour knead togeth and stir these in until the juic is thick and smooth. serv oxtail ragout with boil or bake potato ; tini white onion brown in butter and cook until just tender ; and hot garlic french bread . 
 pour the sauc over the meat. suggest accompani : arrang boil potato and onion around the meat on the platter and serv with butter spinach and dill pickl . 
 each chapter in this book suggest one way that you can give a parti or help a younger child give one. there are game you can play ; refresh you may want to serv ; and invit , decor , and favor you can make . 
 heat gentl ; do not let boil . serv 4 to 6 . 
 stir constant until thickened. add vanilla and serv . 
 second : the next step will be a love all-day process , just right for a raini or snowi day saturday , for instanc , when there is no school and you have plenti of time to yourself . the puritan housewif alway cook her bean all day saturday , serv them for dinner on saturday night , and again as leftov warm over the follow sunday noon . 
 fish and fowl plenty. oyster i think would serv all england . 
 sever ham will be auction off , the proceed of which will be deposit in the highest bidder ' share account . dinner will be serv at 5:30 p.m. the price of the dinner will be $ 2^50 , of which $ ^50 will be paid for by the credit union . 
 no one know it is there until a beachcomb , search for glass ball and odd bit of driftwood , see the dark thing in the surf at four in the morn . he rub his eye , then run to a seasid cafe that serv earli breakfast to the perch fishermen . 
 he savor good italian food and like the fruiti white wine from the rhineland-palatin , his home region. `` schmidt onli serv coca-cola , '' one social democrat offici rememb glum . 
 drain and chill. serv as an appet or salad cours . 
 these will cook faster in about 15 minut , but they are less like pud and more like popovers. suggest accompani : with your beef roast , brown potato and yorkshir pud you might serv rosemari butter . 
 for , instead of serv the intermin chip ' n ' dip , dough-encrust sausag and spread-top toast round , nut and pretzel , to be follow by meat and potato , she introduc a note of eleg surpris with a crystal-clear amber consomm , a delic cream of almond soup , or perhap an inspir concoct of artichok and white wine . gracious serv at the tabl in love china cup , the effect upon the famili and guest satur with the ordinari , can be startl . 
 sinc he could n't be too articul around mother , he appoint me as his intermediari . `` hell , i ai n't go to be coop up like a beejeezeley , sweet-smel , bobbed-hair housewif , push a work tabl around like i was serv tea , `` he explod . 
 it may have enough youth charm to be pleasant and enough charact to be recogniz , but it never fulli develop qualiti and die young and unfulfil . these wine suit modern condit when restrict storag space prevent wine be laid down and lack of time depriv them of proper care in decant and serv . 
 sear the meat quick on both side over a high heat and reduc the heat and cook , turn the meat onc more until the hamburg have achiev your desir state of doneness. serv as for broil hamburg , abov . 
 `` just like eat out of a can , `` remark mr. baker . while the guest were serv themselv , larri and his mother put chili sauc , catsup , carrot strip , and bottl of relish on each tabl . when everyon was seat , mr. and mrs. baker serv milk . 
 most often , they were candi in a butteri sugar syrup ( after boil ) . but they were also use in pud and souffl , and plain bake sweet potato were serv with great glob of countri butter . 
 bring to a boil. serv with crouton fri in butter until crisp . 
 put a lid on the casserol and bake in a dg350 oven for 1-1/2 hour or until the meat is tender. serv with hot biscuit or hot bread and a good green salad . 
 or use a salamand a special french utensil which is heat red hot and then held over the sugar to glaze it . cool befor serv . 
 with thyme : bast with consomm flavor with thyme. with mushroom : serv with broil mushroom , broil bacon and crisp potato . 
 bake in a dg350 oven for 1 hour. serv hot with heavi cream or ice cream . 
 garnish with thin slice of lemon and sprinkl with snip dill . serv 6 to 8 . 
 season with sherri , salt and pepper . serv 4 . 
 season with salt and pepper and return chicken to soup. serv with matzo ball , if desired. serv 6 . 
 bake in a dg400 f. oven until thorough heat about 5 minutes. serv from the casserole. serv 6 . 
 it was indefens , he said , to celebr the lord 's supper at the sabbath morn service. the proper time to serv supper was in the even . 
 this should take onli about 8 to 10 minutes. cut in wedg and serv from the skillet. this omelet benefit by be serv with a sauc . 
 he sniffl and wept , but wolf larsen was pitiless. `` and see that you serv no more slop , `` was his part injunct . 
 derrick jump up to get a cup for the fisherman , but emil hedla was ahead of him. sink back , derrick watch his rival bring a fill cup and serv it to clement , who reward him with a comrad smile . 
 chill thorough in a bowl in the refriger . serv 8 . 
 tast for season and pour the sauc over the scallops. serv with gnocchi ( see page 111 , v2 ) . this cut may be roast , but you will find it much tastier if you brais it and serv it with a rich sauc . 
 benedictin monk have brew beer at the monasteri sinc it was built in 1455 atop the holi mountain , name for the religi relic discov in a ruin castle. they serv it to pilgrim . 
 `` dr. mcdonald was up with the sun. he took over a mess tabl and set up his paraphernalia. ben follow my order and told the cook not to serv breakfast to ani man until he had been vaccin , and they obey . 
 chill. when readi to serv , beat the reserv egg white . 
 warm the soup bowl in a dg150 oven for 3 or 4 minut . add to soup 1/8 teaspoon pepper , 1 tablespoon chop parsley , and just befor serv add the 2 chop hard-boil egg . 
 this will take about 1/2 to 3/4 hour. serv with grate parmesan chees and crisp butter toast . 
 do not baste. serv the rump roast with the accompani suggest for rib roast . 
 strain the juic from the pan through a veri fine siev and tast for seasoning. serv the slice meat with the cold sauc and with tini gherkin . 
 strain the soup over all . serv 6 . 
 the girl put her head insid the blanket across the cave mouth. `` enter now and serv the supper . '' 
 although it was farther north than kabul , the weather that morn in mazar was balmi . breakfast was serv in the hotel 's huge dine room , which look to be the size of a ballroom and , compar to our sleep quarter , it was opul . 
 he greet diner in the front hall so `` there 's no doubt who 's go to be cooking. '' he emerg into the coffe salon to receiv compliment onli after all meal are serv . 
 season with salt and pepper . serv 8 . 
 strain the hot broth into the tureen. if desir , serv with croutons. serv 4 to 6 . 
 for his lunch-tim sandwich the industri worker rare use the tradit margarin and jam ; despit the high price , he may insist on butter , and ham or liver sausag to go with it . scotch or canadian whiski , or a good domest or french brandi , hard known about befor the advent of televis and magazin advertis , are now serv when friend drop in , or on special famili occas . 
 stir in the butter , parsley and mint . serv 6 . 
 turn heat down , cover , and simmer for 2 minutes. serv in soup bowl or deep plate . 
 about 15 minut on each side should just about do it. cut into pie-shap wedg and serv while hot . 
 turn them onc or twice dure the cook , season to tast with salt and pepper and bast with the juic in the pan. serv the fresh ham with the potato and onion , brais cabbag or sauerkraut , dill pickl and thin slice rye bread. appl sauc flavor with horseradish or fri appl ring and horseradish , serv separ , go well with this dish . 
 cook up for a minut or two and add to the hot rich cream sauce. serv on rice and accompani with chutney and toast chop almond . 
 add salt and pepper if necessary. pour the sauc over the pork roll and serv with butter noodl , chop spinach dress with tarragon butter and ice-cold beer . 
 sprinkl lavish with chop parsley. with this serv a rice pilaff mix with raisin and pine nut . 
 steam over hot water , cover , for 3 hour , or until the cornmeal has becom a firm loaf. serv cut in slice with plenti of butter , salt , pepper , and if you like , grate parmesan cheese. with sauc : serv with ani of the tomato sauc , chees sauc , or spaghetti sauc suggest in the sauc or pasta chapter . 
 kaplan sat strap to the toilet , fast asleep. `` that 's some coffe you serv , `` said leder . 
 next , remov the littl green hulls. choos the ripest , largest berri to use as decor on the top of the shortcak when it is readi to serv . 
 it is flatten out and roll with a bacon or pork strip . ( the butcher doe this job ; you do n't . ) it is best when saute quick in butter ( page 111 ) and serv on crisp toast . 
 sprinkl with nutmeg . serv 6 . 
 continu cook , skim surfac occasion , until meat is fork-tender. remov meat and continu cook broth until readi to serv . 
 add the spinach about 3 minut befor cook time is up . serv 6 to 8 . 
 in the earli 1860 's it had thirti methodist chapel and blossom a few year later into a town of crowd cafe , german band , illumin hotel and a stock exchang where specul from melbourn made overnight fortun . red carpet were spread and champagn serv underground to visit notabl . 
 back in 1984 , tv viewer were amus by a clever new commerci in which a man in a bar holler `` gim me a light , '' but was serv a flame torch instead of a mug of beer . 
 for them , the general secretari keep open house. he like to cook for his guest , shirt-sleev roll up , and to serv them himself . 
 drain thorough and chill . this may be serv as an appet or salad . 
 simmer for about 5 minutes. serv with rice , french-fri onion ring , chop salt peanut , a good chutney and slice banana dress with oliv oil and a littl wine vinegar . 
 pour in pineappl , lower heat , and simmer , cover , for 20 minutes. serv on hot platter with pineappl pour over. serv 4 -- 6 . 
 much of the food valu lie just under the skin and is lost if peel away . after cook , the skin will slip off easili , if you prefer serv them without their jacket . 
 to ensur that hot soup reach the diner hot , heat the soup plates. serv cold , chill or jelli soup breath a happi mist of frost . 
 for a bike-hik the stick should be omit and the bag lunch made to fit a bicycl basket , or a backpack if the outing will be overnight. tail-gat buffet picnic this is a veri popular and practic way to serv lunch just befor that big footbal game , or when travel . 
 it delic textur and surpris nippi tast sent me look for it in market to enjoy in green salad and soup . coriand is often put fresh in chines soup just as they are serv to let the heat bring out the sharp flavor . befor serv it so , a tact host is expect to ask novic , `` doe everybodi like hsiang-t ' ai ? `` 
 the afternoon coffe was not an elabor event . mama usual serv coffe bread and skorpor , which she alway had on hand . 
 boil leek ( see abov ) , drain and cool. soak in a vinaigrett sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) for an hour or so and serv on a bed of green as a salad cours . 
 add to cook prune and bring to a boil. chill to serv . 
 if well season , it is tasti and refresh . unfortun much of the `` cole slaw `` serv these day is simpli cabbag with oil and vinegar . 
 season with salt and pepper . serv 8 . 
 allow your imagin some leeway in soup servic , accord to season , time of day and dine occasion. use your old-fashion glass to serv clear , cold soup on the rock . 
 replac the top circl and garnish with sugar whole berries. serv with heavi cream , whip cream or sour cream . 
 `` you wo n't find the chefs. `` charl masson suggest anoth way out : `` if i were twenty-f , i would take a hole in the wall , about eight tabl , with no union , and serv qualiti food . 
 mayb it was onli afternoon in new york , but my mouth began to water for that nicest meal in england , hot , strong tea with butter scone , bitter marmalad , and biscuits. `` when do they serv tea ? '' 
 whenev chew wong sulk , his cook suffer , and it final was decid to allow bill the run of the kitchen . chew wong outdid himself then with the meal that he serv up , and the kitchen rang with pidgin english and cackl laughter . 
 they should be done in 5 to 8 minut , but test with a fork or toothpick. serv with parsley butter and lemon wedg . 
 `` oh good ! `` cri miss rhys-jon , and a veri wide smile that show much of her upper gum spread across her face . with all serv , the wine pour , the second put around , michael step back for a moment by the screen while the individu voic mix , sound shrill and lace through with senseless laughter . 
 you may need to add a littl boil water to the bottom of the kettl occasionally. unmold the hot pud and serv with a cognac sauc . 
 remov hull either with your finger or with the help of a pare knife or , best of all , with a littl metal huller which can be found in ani housewar store. serv in a pretti glass bowl or one which match the china you re use on the tray . 
 waddel , dure the scuffl , trip over a suitcas , fell on his shoulder and wrench himself right out of the approach world seri . waddel use to amus everybodi by his antic don a barkeep 's apron and serv beer to a full hous , dive off ferryboat or chase fire engin dure ball game . 
 toy and book were alway put back in place . meal were serv punctual and all the children were expect to be in their place at the proper time . 
 the maid even wore a littl frill cap and an apron. and when aunt mari want her to serv the tabl , she press a button under the carpet with her foot and a bell rang in the kitchen . 
 cover and simmer for 30 minut . suggest accompani : tradit sauerbraten is serv with dumpl . 
 all this scarc correspond with the children 's idea of what a famili meal should be like . jean-claud and jean-paul would sigh : `` what we 'd realli like would be a steam tureen on the tabl and mamma serv out the soup . `` 
 `` let us dine . `` refresh were serv buffet style . 
 we learn avers ; but if we tri we can also learn to overcom them , though it is sometim a slow process . i still rememb my first exposur to high game venison serv me by an epicur whom i great admir ; i did n't have the courag to refus the stuff and show my provinci background . 
 add chicken , pimiento and mushroom and keep warm over hot water. serv in patti shells. serv four . 
 the fish is done when it flake easily. serv the fillet right from the broiler pan or slip the whole foil line , with the fish on top , onto a platter. serv with addit melt butter to which you have ad chop parsley , and lemon wedg . 
 the liver should be nice brown on the outsid and pink inside. season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and serv with bearnais sauc , french-fri onion , saute potato and a good toss salad with plenti of oliv oil and wine vinegar dress . 
 when eat out , good , quick meal can be obtain from the spacious and eleg self-servic cafeteria , found everywher , among other place in depart store ( epa , ringbaren , etc. ) they serv wine and beer , but not spirits. grill-bar also serv lavish portion , and , as they are run by italian and spaniard , servic is brisk. not so in a real swedish restaur , where it can take an astonish long time to get serv , and even longer to get the bill afterward . 
 bake at dg350 f. 25 to 35 minut . this bread keep veri well , and is delici when warm , though ordinarili limpa is slice veri thin and serv cold . 
 reserv a few of the glaze prune for garnish and add the rest to the meat pot a few minut befor the veal is done. arrang the meat on a hot platter , decor with the glaze prune and serv the unthicken sauc separ . 
 a long tabl had been set up in the gymnasium close to the kitchen , and the refuge ate togeth . mom had taken olga heintzman and mrs. hedla as her assist , and when everyon was serv they also sat down . 
 still , he never fake emot , you never saw exagger facial express , hand-wav or chin-trembl . he serv you the bird done to perfect but it lack season and the stuf was flat . 
 bake in a preheat dg350 oven for 1/2 hour. serv hot , cut into portion like a pie . 
 season with salt , pepper and cayenn . add the chop pickl just befor serv . when the chop are brown , arrang them on a platter and serv with the hot devil sauc . 
 file powder may be substitut if okra is not avail . file should not be ad until just befor serv , and should never be boil , as that make it bitter . 
 cut the pie with serv knife and pie server . this tart may be serv while still slight warm or when entir cool . never put in refriger befor serv . 
 whi leftov beef should ever be a problem i can not understand . there is noth better than cold roast , slice paper thin and serv with mustard , chutney or pickl walnut ( these can be found in almost ani food specialti shop ) . meat to be serv cold should be remov from the refriger an hour or so befor eat to allow it to return to room temperatur . 
 add potato and continu cook until they are tender . serv 6 to 8 . 
 for sauc , see page 332-337. cook as you do macaroni ( see abov ) and serv plain , sprinkl with grate parmesan chees or in ani of the way suggest for noodl . 
 sinc i am a scotchman , and a `` good eater , `` i pass the prais right at the start . the rest of the meal is alway serv with a littl more person attent by both waiter and cook and the dish are fill generous . 
 sprinkl with chop parsley dure the last five minutes. serv with bake potato and succotash . 
 dress with vinaigrett sauc and garnish with chop chive or littl green onions. serv with mayonnais on the side , if you like . 
 blend thorough and heat through. serv with rice bake in chicken broth and color with saffron ( a veri tini pinch is ampl ) . 
 sinc this was the onli beat he ever work , he was nowher . `` let 's go in here , `` i said , lead the way into a greek 's where they serv both liquor and ice cream . 
 reheat , but do not let boil . serv 2 to 4 . 
 insid , abov a layer of jam-pack , shout face , a bottl of champagn wave to and fro. we squeez close enough to see that it was brandish by a young man dress as a french sailor who was tri to serv drink . 
 the next rule is `` young befor old `` , for the clear reason that old wine develop an intens of flavour which is lack in young wines. this may seem strang at first sight in some case and i have often heard the argument that it would be better to serv an old claret befor a young burgundi . 
 when i had a tea , it would alway be twenti or thirti . never ani less than half a dozen differ kind of cake were ever serv in this hous . 
 they return to the dun and ate and drank and made their plan . naikeri serv them on the mound outsid the door and listen but said noth , not understand what was be plan . 
 the chines and french , two peopl fame for their cookeri , both respect veget and give them fine treatment . in the orient , tender asparagus , snow pea or young green bean are cook gentl , just to the done stage , and serv up still a littl on the bitey side . 
 viola pucker her lip , annoy . the night befor benni had talk the bartend at andi 's tavern into serv nine-year-old tommi and me whiski . 
 add oyster with their liquor and continu cook until oyster edg begin to curl. serv with a bowl of hot , fluffi boil rice to spoon into the gumbo. serv 6 . 
 bake 30 to 45 minut , until brown . serv 8 to 9 . 
 reduc heat and simmer , cover , for 4 hour , skim occasion and ad a littl more boil water if needed. strain and serv with brown the onion and garlic in hot lard . 
 heat bouillon and water to piping. serv with two slice of avocado float on top of each cup or bowl . 
 no , they would dine alon . he need not dress ... dinner was serv , intim , befor the fire in the huge live room . 
 pour the beaten egg white into soup just befor turn off heat. serv at once. serv 4 . 
 until around world war ii , eggnog parti were exceed popular in the nation 's capit . typic southern specialti such as biscuit fill with chicken salad or ham and plate of fruitcak and sweet cooki were serv with it . 
 do not let the water boil , and do not let the chees mixtur get too hot or the egg will curdle. as soon as it is hot through , serv it over well-butt toast . 
 mrs. loeving say lefs are easier to handl than the recip sound , but that it is realli a job for two peopl one to roll out the lefs , and one to flip them on the grill . yield : 15 pancak danish festsupp is often serv at special gather dure the holiday . 
 his second choic was jack and charli 's `` 21 . `` there , he note , a hous specialti of bone squab stuf with wild rice , foie gras , and truffl , and serv with a madeira sauc , cost all of $ 2^25 . 
 chill until ici cold. serv with an ice cube or two in each bowl . 
 wash green well ahead of time , shake to remov excess moistur , wrap in a clean tea towel , and refriger to crisp. when readi to serv , tear the green in bite-s piec into a salad bowl . 
 anxious to do our bit to commemor the great day , we queri the villag father as to what the school 's role had been in the past . it develop that a communiti dinner had alway been cook at the school and serv to the entir populac . 
 bake in 450 degre oven 10 -- 15 minut or until bubbl . serv 8 . 
 the old-tim use lard instead of butter . note ii this recip can also be serv as a first cours , in which case the 12 prawn or 24 shrimp will serv 6 peopl easili . 
 wrap in clean towel and lay on platter with enough weight on top to press chicken slight togeth , but not to squeez out juice. cool and refriger until time to serv . 
 in scandinavia the food variat between the rich and the poor are not as differ as those in other countri . meal might be serv four or five time a day . 
 place hard roll on a cooki sheet and heat in 350 degre oven along with the fish pud until pipe ( 15 -- 20 minut ) . serv wrap in a napkin to retain heat . 
 they can be roast whole or split and broiled. serv 1 chicken per person . 
 season with salt and pepper. remov pork , slice , and serv separ with a good spici mustard. serv 6 to 8 . 
 garnish with crouton or crisp bacon bit . serv 6 . 
 pour the mixtur into a souffl dish greas and dust with sugar and bake in a dg350 oven for 35 to 45 minut or until brown and puffed. serv with a custard sauc . 
 top each with 1/4 of the meringue. chill until readi to serve. serv 4 . 
 `` the tall , stoop-should woman is wait for us outsid her room and invit us insid . she gracious serv us coffe and littl squar of chocol . 
 some food shop carri their own make. serv pate chill and turn out on a platter . 
 chill . unmold in time for serv . 
 dessert fluffi omelet : omit the salt and add 1 tablespoon of sugar to the omelet mixture. when it is cook sprinkl the top with confection 's sugar and serv with melt jam or jelli as a sauc . 
 add more liquid if necessary. serv with pan juic . 
 cook for a few minut until the meat is tender , the liquid is reduc a littl and the flavor are well blended. serv with a rice pilaff , fresh string bean with almond and toast garlic bread. variat : serv these tarragon scallop cold with a potato salad dress with oliv oil and wine vinegar . 
 stir well and reheat for a few seconds. add the parsley and ham and serv veri hot. serv 4 . 
 bake in a dg350 oven for 45 minut , or until tender when test with a fork. serv the squash in the shell with addit butter , salt and pepper . 
 add sherri , if desir , and heat well. serv in a sauc boat so that each person may take as much as he like for his fish pud . 
 if pie crust is ad , bake until crust is golden . serv 4 to 6 . 
 ale was brought to him there and he drank . there were no women at the banquet , of cours , other than those who serv the drink , nor was their presenc permit at so import a function . 
 these will cook in about half the time. serv chill with cream or whip cream . 
 on recent day when he has need money for a textbook , the famili has gone without meat. `` i serv zucchini sandwich , spinach sandwich , '' say his mother , a clean ladi rais five children alon . 
 `` she wait while catherin finish the sicken sweet tea . then she told her what time breakfast was serv , and went out . 
 they should take about 8 to 10 minutes. serv warm or cold with cream. with custard sauc : serv with custard sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . with ice cream : serv over ice cream. with other fruit : serv in combin with other stew or poach fruit . 
 some of these can be excel if ripe and sharp . these are rich creami chees best serv with fresh fruit at the end of the meal . they must be taken from the refriger some time befor serv , or they will be hard and tasteless . 
 this was alway held , year after year , on a friday evening. mackenzi , ever shi and distant , refus to mingl in the festiv , and beg of my foreman to be permit to serv at the buffet . 
 he began with a campaign for bread when no woman in her right mind was bake bread ! no ring of rubi went to my finger until he made it clear in a written communic : serv home bake bread was to be one of the goal of `` the littl hous . `` 
 at time i went down . she carri the mealbowl from tabl to tabl , smile quiet , as if the peopl she serv , her husband 's peopl , were her own . 
 for small mold , boil 2 to 2-1/2 hour ; for larg mold , 4 hours. serv hot with or without custard sauc . 
 if the occas is a tea , the tea servic should be handl by the hostess or someon invit to take charg of this. the young peopl can serv the guest , take away the use cup and saucer , and pass tini sandwich , cake or cooki . 
 most of these report are mail , but physician must phone in the inform immedi if it involv one of 15 particular worrisom diseas , from measl to yellow fever or cholera. they also must report immedi if it even appear that ani diseas on the list might have been contract in such place as day-car center , nurs home or hospit -- or from food serv in an institut or restaur . 
 `` i hope she wo n't be too much troubl . here you have n't even finish serv breakfast yet . 
 when my mother , part of whose educ was at convent , came from america to torregreca for a brief visit , the mother superior startl her by take over the duti of a waitress and offer everi dish of a complex luncheon herself . she brush asid my object with , `` by serv the mother , i show respect for the child . 
 the fruits-of-the-sea , as the french call seafood , were abund and delici . the `` habit , `` giant martiniqu prawn or shrimp , and the red land crab were serv with rice , and high season with nativ herb and spice . 
 i am more than grate to the offic of the australian news and inform bureau of the depart of the interior , both in canberra and london , for answer factual queri with such effici and dispatch and for suppli photograph , and to the invari kind and courteous staff of the librari both at australia hous and in canberra , where mrs. dawson gave me so much valuabl help. you reach australia when they serv you chop for breakfast in your qanta aircraft , 30,000 feet abov the central desert . 
 the avail and conveni of can and frozen food , plus the advertis that would have you believ they re as health as fresh food , too often lead the housewif to take the lazi way out . so she open a packag or can , serv these lifeless unappet veget to her famili and tell her children : `` eat your veget ; they re good for you . `` 
 final , add the second dosag of cognac , flame , and spoon the sauc over the crepes. serv at onc . 
 fine , rich egg noodl can be bought ready-made. an 8-ounc packag will serv 4 to 6 person . 
 in bake , the cake will rise up out of the pan , but in cool it will settl back down. chill to serv . 
 corn beef and the irish seem to go together. howev , if you wish , you can serv ani other meat ; for exampl , press can meat , roast beef , or meat loaf . 
 he descend to the deck. `` tell the cook to serv breakfast to the crew as soon as possibl , '' he told dobb . 
 few peopl make a plain spong cake nowaday . this is a piti , for it is a veri versatil cake , excel serv plain with fruit , surpris good when a littl stale if moisten with rum or liqueur and top with a rich custard sauc . 
 wrap in foil and warm in a dg200 oven about 20 minutes. slice in thick piec and serv . 
 heat through but do not boil again. serv with boil rice ( page 111 , v1 ) . 
 in the silenc after the thunder georg could not hear the drone of the engin , and he watch until the cloud came apart again and he could see the blur of the propel befor they enter anoth bank of gray clouds. `` i wish they 'd serv drink , `` the woman said . 
 look out , you re let the stew burn . `` he reach around her to turn off the heat , push her gentl into a chair at the kitchen tabl , and serv the stew . 
 add salt and pepper to taste. when readi to serv , arrang the slice of meat on a round platter and heap the turnip-potato mixtur in the middl . 
 it was trim and natti look , well enough , but it choker collar shut off air , it tight tunic was hot and stiff , and the tape putte wound around their leg cut off circul . they also said uncomplimentari thing about the food serv them . 
 add the butter the last time you stir it. serv with cream . 
 cool , then chill. serv cold with a spoon of sour cream in each bowl. serv 6 . 
 drain the potato and remov the skins. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with butter , allow plenti for jersey sweet . 
 vasso wheel through her guest like a dervish , urg them to eat , to drink . the priest , serv by vasso and by his wife , ate as though he had fast for forti day . 
 there is no trace of hatr in his voic , nor is there ani in the voic of the owner , a former armi lieutenant. the simpl fact is , in the cafe call latin-musiqu at 96 boulevard saint-germain , they do n't serv black anymor . 
 his scheme work perfect . `` in the philippin we would have a great mani thing for the christma feast , `` a friend say , `` but here it is most often a bone stuf chicken serv onli with fruit salad . `` filipino usual serv the stuf chicken lukewarm , but mani will prefer it cold like a pate . 
 cover the pan tight and bake in a dg350 oven for 25 to 30 minut , or until all the liquid is absorbed. serv with plenti of butter . 
 dave elli move over to join ted callison , chet , and roy veeder in the other sled . kennart had brought provis with him : bundl of dri meat , of the sort that had been serv at the banquet . it was not that he had ani prejudic against the food the new yorker would serv him ; he simpli prefer his own . 
 remov the bard bacon from the breast dure the last 15 minut of cooking. serv with wild rice or barley and small white onion steam in butter . 
 sprinkl with siev hard-cook egg yolk and chop parsley . serv 2 to 4 . 
 french gourmet use a much shorter tulip- or cone-shap glass. other advic : do n't serv champagn too cold ; over-chil kill the flavor ( from 43 to 46 degre f. is about right ) . do n't serv a veri dri , or brut , champagn with sweet thing ; they make the wine tast sour . 
 add rum , madeira or sherri to taste. serv with a select of garnish list below. serv 4 to 6 . 
 kemp also rais about $ 2 million but goe $ 200,000 in debt. biden 's total of over $ 2 million top democrat ; he rake in $ 435,000 at a california lunch serv import caviar . 
 garnish each serv with a sprinkl of snip dill or chive , a thin slice of lemon or a bit of caviar . serv 6 . 
 `` it 's the length of a footbal field , but not quit as wide. we can serv 10,000 meal a day here and for our thanksgiv dinner we have over two and a half ton of turkey . 
 the breakfast itself was eleg . mazar is famous for her melon , one of afghanistan 's major export , and succul juici melon ball were serv to us on crystal tray . 
 pour the batter into a well-butt casserol and bake at dg375 for 35 to 40 minut , or until light , puffi and brown on top. serv from the casserol with a spoon , and pass plenti of butter , salt and pepper . 
 arrang these around the edg of the platter. garnish with strip of pimiento and ripe oliv and serv with vinaigrett sauc . 
 `` it 's a type of cabin fever , '' she figures. boozer are particular nuisanc , and they are sure to make a scene if flight attend refus to serv them . 
 we need to provid program where there is more structur and consistency. '' the men who stay in capt. rondon 's gymnasium are expect to work for their night 's lodg by sweep the build , help to serv the next day 's meal or , now dure the holiday season , man the christma kettl . 
 the 149 district in our area contain about 575,000 school kid . we estim that they are serv about 150,000 lunch now , which is not enough ; but befor we got to work they were give out no more than 50,000 . 
 stir in the sherri ( unless the can soup has alreadi been flavor with wine ) . serv veri hot , garnish with croutons. serv 6 to 8 . 
 i told him to forget the prowler and join me in `` sto lat , `` the polish drink song that say , `` may you live a hundr years. `` with a good-natur laugh he said no , it was too earli , and refus to serv me ani more or rather diplomat persuad me not to ask him for ani more . 
 cool , then chill. serv veri cold in chill soup cup , each garnish with a thin slice of lemon. serv 6 . 
 a period of about two hour is safe for young , robust wine , whilst more delic wine are safer with a shorter period of about an hour . wine over thirti year old are safest decant just befor be serv , or serv care direct from a decant basket . 
 it sign read : `` credit card honor whatev they are . `` leonard lyon in the antique-styl nell gwyn 's tavern in new york the menu say : `` histor authent english food is serv in hyster inaccur english surround . `` 
 continu beat and cook over hot water until the sauc is thicken and hot. serv at onc . 
 excarol and romain , have firmer leav , will take a littl longer. serv with the crumbl bacon bit sprinkl on top . 
 pour into a butter mold and follow direct for cook steam lemon pud ( see abov ) , steam the chocol pud for 2-1/2 hours. serv with a chocol sauc and whip cream . 
 `` we do n't know how to tell the doctor that mani american boy do n't like wine ; they are n't use to have it at home , as the french are , `` report one of her team at one hospit . `` everi now and then , as a treat , wine is serv here . 
 be a blueberri maven , the `` hotel giant blueberri : blueberri as big as quarter ! '' sound irresist , especi given the editori snicker that `` some grower boast berri as big as nickel but our will regular cover a quarter. '' what 's more , `` the giant blueberri serv in ritzi hotel and restaur are puni compar to those you can grow from our special select huski plants. '' ( regular huski ? ) 
 i do my best for them. i consid the food we serv as import as the medic . 
 juic may be thicken if desir with a littl flour mix with water . serv 6 . 
 mcgraw tri to shorten his social radius by send his pay check to mrs. raymond. he forbad the bartend in the train town of marlin to serv him a drink ever . 
 the beggar sat on the stoop all day and no one bother to hide him in the garag . chicken and french fri were serv to all , but no one had ani appetit ; somehow they did n't tast as good as they use to when hajji malek dispens such tidbit from the platter to his favorit . 
 small white onion may be peel and ad to the roast pan at the same time. serv roast pork with appl sauc or glaze appl ring . 
 cook until just tender ( 5 -- 7 minut ) and drain. put butter into pan , return drain pea to it and when readi to serv turn on moder heat under the pan until pea and butter sizzl a littl ( about 1 minut ) . serv 4 -- 6 . 
 the hor d'oeuvr were raw white fish in a sauc ( veri good ) and caviar on thin slice of cold cook rice ; the soup was rich with mushroom , serv with a slice of lemon on a jade-color dish. `` if we serv a thin soup , the bottom of the bowl is decor so you can see as well as tast beauti , `` the doctor explain . 
 due sixti cent now are a dollar a year . lunch of coffe and goodi serv by three hostess for a cost of ten cent now lunch serv by five hostess at a cost of fifteen cent ( still reason ) . 
 cook for anoth 20 minut or until everyth is tender . sprinkl with fresh parsley befor serv . 
 beat the egg togeth with the port . stir the mixtur brisk into the hot soup just befor serv . 
 simmer for anoth hour. strain and serv with bit of ham from the bone . 
 it show in various littl way . like the differ in the meal his mother had been serv late ; the sudden attent given to bill ; the look on both of his parent ' face when money was brought into the convers . 
 place in a larg freezer tray and freez for 4 to 5 hour , stir occasionally. cut into squar and serv on bib-lettuc leav ; garnish with a rose-petal-cut cherri and a few nut . 
 and of cours a big stove with an elbow pipe . the dinner was n't serv yet . 
 or use chop date , currant , or apricots. decor the cooki with frost or anyth els that suit your fanci or is appropri to the occas upon which you wish to serv them . 
 figur about 3 cup of sauc for a 4- to 5-pound center cut. serv the sauc separ or pour it over the fish and garnish with slice hard-cook egg , caper and chop parsley. with dill sauc : make a dill sauc to serv with the fish ( see page 111 , v4 ) . with caper sauc : make a caper sauc to serv with the fish ( see page 111 , v4 ) . mornay : make a mornay sauc to serv with the fish ( see page 111 , v4 ) . 
 stir in the bread crumb , chili pulp and seed , chili powder , oregano , coriand and vinegar . cook and stir for a few minut , then add to the soup a minut or two befor serv . serv 6 . 
 but a boy who was sit in the room on a fold chair when the car drove in believ the man was mere drunk . the fifth estat serv coffe , hot chocol , coke , and sandwich , but it custom do not normal eat or drink much . 
 bake on a hot , butter griddl or in a skillet , turn once. serv with melt butter , mapl syrup or honey and a touch of lemon juic . 
 he arriv there in 1977 , with presid carter. he tell of his admir for mr. carter 's mother , the vener miss lillian , who came to the abc news trailer under the water tank at plain , georgia , to have sam serv up a shot glass of jack daniel 's straight . 
 plan togeth what game to play and decid who will introduc the game and refere them. agre on what food to serv and how to serv it . 
 garnish with crouton and sprinkl with chop chive , if desir . serv 4 to 6 . 
 add sherri . serv 3 to 4 . 
 `` all right , than . `` kent was make it clear that she was there on suffer onli becaus he could not veri well , at that hour , expect two separ meal to be serv . 
 for their part , some indigen valley resid complain that their nativ soil has alreadi becom a verit coloni of the midwest. a latino businessman saw someth symbol about recent spend 20 minut in a cafeteria line behind a group of winter texan , onli to find that the mexican entre was sold out by the time he was serv . 
 stir into the soup and chill until veri cold . add the appl just befor serv . serv 4 to 6 . 
 spain has some veri good train , such as the taf , which is streamlin , comfort , and fast . on a taf train , tray are brought to your seat at mealtim , and the food is usual as good or better than that serv on american train . 
 keep it clean. when it is time to serv dessert , insert the flower in the center of a paper cup of ice cream. be sure to serv the dessert on a plate so that the guest may take this flower out of the pot and set it on the plate befor he eat it . 
 danubian town give way to transylvanian forest as he pick up unusu friend and strang bit of inform ( hun wore skin of field mice sewn togeth ) . cosmopolitan countess serv elabor dinner in place with unpronounc name ; gypsi pan for gold as he roll them cigarett . 
 if you like some can soup just as they come , see that there 's a good assort avail . one can , dilut as direct , serv two or three . 
 midnight snack . in one famili , where the christma food is alway lavish and rich , it has becom a tradit to end christma day with a special snack of jello serv in a cut-glass bowl . 
 fold in half and fill with currant jelly. serv immedi on a heat plate. serv with tini broil sandwich . 
 chill in the refrigerator. when readi to serv , run the blunt tip of a flat knife between the cup and the flan . 
 the captain of blockade-run ship were paid in gold for smuggl such luxuri as perfum , jewelri , brandi and food delicaci . it was well known by everyon in richmond that certain privat club had dine room which serv the rarest food at a time when children suffer hunger pang . 
 she alway look as if she had just step out of a shower into a cool becom dress , had just brush her smooth shoulder-length ash blond hair , and no hazard of the day would rumpl those cloth or muss that head. she never rais her voic and her servant did not disappear on religi pilgrimag in the middl of lunch , nor serv ice cream with tomato sauc . 
 drain . put back into saucepan with a good hunk of butter and sizzl a littl befor serv , shake the pan frequent . 
 in a doubl boiler heat the jam , well mix with the water. when readi to serv , pour it over vanilla ice cream in individu dishes. serv 10 . 
 place in a preheat dg325 oven for 40 minutes. serv pipe hot . 
 turn the celeri often to be sure it is even bathed. serv on romain with a garnish of chop green onion or chive . 
 just abov where the plate will be , print the name in big , bold letter . or , the name can be print vertic a good idea when the food will be serv after everyon is seat . 
 garnish with hard-cooked-egg slice and chop parsley , and top with a spoon of sour cream , if desired. slice the meat and serv separately. serv 6 . 
 rapid should be within hail distanc in less than an hour. `` tell the cook to serv breakfast to the hand as soon as possibl , '' mereweth told larkin . 
 she felt that this might be done most appropri after the even meal , so at dinner time , refresh from the promis dip in the pool and the discoveri that it was quit easi to stay afloat , she came downstair bear an arm of beauti wrap packag . she put them on a chair in the entranc hall until after coffe was serv , then present them ceremoni . 
 you take a littl slug befor eat , then a littl after ! for this ceremoni , slivovitz is serv in a tini bottl with a littl glass . kolacki is serv in bohemian-american home for ani festiv occas , and alway for christma . it is a veri sweet bread , which mani american would prefer with coffe or as dessert ; but in czech home it is usual serv throughout the christma meal . 
 garnish each portion with a sprinkl of paprika . serv 6 . 
 remov with two pot holders. serv immedi in bake dish . 
 surround with thin slice of toast or veri firm bread. serv as suggest for sardin , page 11 , but garnish with chop hard-cook egg and black garlic oliv instead of lemon wedg . 
 `` resid of birmingham , alabama remnant of mani kind of christma can be found today in the southern state french , spanish , english , greek , german , moravian , italian , especi and on new year 's day a tradit that the slave must have brought is univers . from the district of columbia to texa , black-ey pea are cook with hog jowl or ham and serv in southern home for `` money in the pot `` or good luck . 
 in dalla , 1,600 peopl appli for 110 spot in a two-month train program that would enabl those chosen to teach without go back to school. one of them , former american airlin flight attend kendal haggerti , say : `` there 's a limit to how much good you re do serv tea and coke . 
 add a sprinkl of brown sugar after you turn the pineapple. serv plain or flavor with a littl rum . 
 sprinkl with chop fresh parsley . serv 8 to 10 . 
 garnish with chop parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 if you let cook veget stand in the hot water they lose their color and go limp. serv at onc , while still steam . 
 finish accord to instruct on the package. make a plain pilaff ( see page 111 ) and serv it with plenti of grate parmesan chees . 
 give everyon specif respons . `` pleas keep the younger children out of the kitchen until dinner is serv . `` 
 he like to keep a tight schedul , and she went along as best she could . she serv dinner each even at a certain hour except onc . 
 a few year back an oversea press club parodi of playboy magazin offer the follow respons to a mythic foreign correspond 's queri about what beverag to serv with wildebeest : `` ani good brown wine will do . '' 
 remov from heat and stir in file. remov turkey carcass , add salt and serv pipe hot. serv 6 to 8 . 
 the favorit foreign food of most american is italian , so you must certain round out your abil to present a foreign dinner parti for famili or friend with typic food of that country. it 's easi to make and to serv and delici . 
 salt and pepper to tast and add 2 tablespoon of chop parsley just befor the veal is done. serv with saute potato and tini french pea cook with onion and lettuc . 
 add escarol , onion , potato , celeri , carrot and wine , and continu cook for 30 minutes. serv with grate chees to sprinkl on top. serv 6 to 8 . 
 mani of the group of wine suggest in this chapter in the section `` everyday wine `` ( p111 , v1 ) are suitabl for the less elabor dinner parti . most of them can be serv all through a meal . it is in fact easier to list those wine which can not be serv through a meal than the revers . the onli wine serv with food are the so-cal tabl wine not the fortifi wine . 
 bring just to boil over low heat . serv 6 to 8 . 
 sever hand-lett sign along the road advertis `` puppi for sale . `` i found myself wish that mrs. william had serv carrot for dinner . 
 just be sure that you put hot water into the pot to warm it befor you fill it and that the coffe is hot. the same goe for the pot in which you serv the hot milk , which should be heat but not boil . 
 in septemb 1875 , mort believ the problem had been solv . at a luncheon for three hundr guest , he serv meat that had been kept frozen for fifteen month . 
 down the right-hand side of the court were the royal kitchen , and to the left the hall of the divan where the sultan 's minist met and where ambassador were receiv by the grand vizier . they were general serv a lavish dinner befor be conduct through the gate of felic at the far end of the court and into the throne room beyond . 
 everi person should feel at home and more than welcom ; everyon should be greet with a hug and a warm handshake. if the household can radiat warmth and good fellowship as well as serv a perfect dinner , the day will glow in memori down the year . 
 remov to a hot platter and season to taste. serv with ani of the sauc suggest abov for sirloin or porterhous . 
 empanadita are spanish fri pie that have adopt american mincemeat for fill . tradit , they are serv between meal with wine . 
 ambrosia was an integr part of christma everywher in the south , creol or otherwis . ordinarili , it was serv as a dessert after the heavi christma meal , but in our famili it has been the chief compon of christma breakfast as long as anyon can rememb . 
 suggest accompani : veri crisp home-fri potato and fresh asparagus with melt butter . one tenderloin steak serv one person . 
 back in tokyo , execut are talk about buy american brokerag hous and hire more specialist in field rang from bond trade to arbitrag to fed watching. `` we do n't want to be a japanes restaur in new york serv onli sushi and sukiyaki , '' say yoshio terasawa , nomura 's execut vice presid in charg of intern business. `` we want to serv french cuisin , american fast food , everyth , in the futur . '' 
 add the grate switzerland chees and pour the soup into a larg casserol , or into individu casserol , and bake in a dg350 oven for 15 minutes. top with the toast bread slice , sprinkl with grate parmesan chees and serv . 
 turn out upsid down on cake plate or rack. serv warm or cold . 
 each of the period of impot occur when he was cook for himself , eat irregular and without regard for varieti or nutrit balanc . the first episod had clear up when he move into a colleg dormitori which serv three meal a day ( although he had n't realiz the connect at the time ) . 
 a ripe , juici plum is soft , but not mushy. one pound will serv about 4 person . 
 prepar accord to the recip for roast leg of lamb ( page 284 ) and be sure you cook it onli to the rare stage. serv with mash butter turnip and roast potato . 
 sprinkl with the salt and sugar , and pour over them the white vinegar dilut with a littl water. mix and serv , sprinkl with chop parsley . 
 mrs. malon was rememb that she realli like toni ; it was just that for the first few minut he was alway a shock . mrs. malon told vashti she could start serv breakfast as soon as it was readi , then they all sat around the tabl . 
 or arrang saute eggplant slice in a shallow , flame-proof dish , sprinkl with grate parmesan chees and run under the broiler to brown. with barbecu sauc : serv saute eggplant slice with a spici barbecu sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . with tomato and onion : serv saute eggplant slice top with grill tomato and saute onion slice . 
 an offici at anoth major u.s. auto compani suggest consum are confus by the hodgepodg incent program the compani are offering. `` i do n't know whether the dog food we have put out has n't been serv in a pretti plate , or whether the dog food itself is n't good enough , '' he ad . 
 place peel hard-cook egg along the side of this cake and mold the remain meat loaf mixtur on top. in this way you serv a slice of egg in the side of each slice of meat . 
 brush with cream or melt butter just befor remov from stove . make 18 to 20 bun moravian sugar cake is serv at candl tea held in earli decemb in old salem , north carolina . 
 return to pot , stir for a few moment , but do not boil . to serv , pour the content of the pot into a warm serv bowl . 
 introduct made , we were then escort down marbl step to the garden below . gaili stripe tent were at one end and champagn and canap were serv from them by white-co waiter . 
 the lamb will take about 1-1/4 to 1-3/4 hour to cook , for rare. serv with the pan juic and the follow bean dish : soak 2 cup of dri bean overnight. ( unless you use quick-cook bean . ) 
 it made her feel veri uncomfort . clair came back and serv the coffe awkward . 
 the custom order filet of sole and wait with keen anticip . after the dish was serv and it was a veri wateri one he wait some more . 
 an annual eleven o'clock brunch held on the saturday morn nearest may 1 . as the guest arriv , they are serv someth special to drink . one hostess alway serv coffe in pretti mexican glass cup . mani serv an eye-open demi-tass of veri hot , strong coffe . 
 or arrang the cauliflow alon on a bed of greens. serv with vinaigrett sauc , mayonnais , mayonnais flavor with mustard or chili sauc , or with a sour cream dress . 
 slowli add the cream and egg yolk , stir constantly. add the wine and cucumb and serv pipe hot. serv 2 to 4 . 
 `` most of these provis , `` said my friend jaswant singh , `` are from donor , and they come by the cartload from villag . the cook and serv are all done by volunt . 
 `` i 'd rather that she put her kid and husband first and put the busi second or third , '' he says. even at work , he has her serv him coffe and run his person errand . 
 the ingredi will at least tripl in bulk. refriger until readi to serve. serv 12 . 
 in one hous that she visit there was a heat swim pool and spare set of tog for visitor . at midnight a butler had serv hot bouillon , then rasher and egg . 
 until recent year american alway overcook lamb . peopl shi away from lamb that was the least bit pink , despit the fact that this is a meat that is much better when serv rare . a number of restaur most french , to be sure now serv fine roast lamb that resembl good rare beef . 
 today , in the yukon , alaska , they continu to do so , have move the big communiti feast or potlatch to christmas. each famili in the yukon bring plate or bowl for all it member , and the leader serv the food usual moos stew and bear meat from common contain . 
 track devic have also benefit great from the grow power of computers. for exampl , use implant transpond which interact with radio signal from a mainfram comput , b.i. inc. 's system of identif for cow instruct feed machin , also control by the mainfram , to serv up differ diet for certain anim . 
 there were dirti tray , and wine-cool en perman on the sideboard , huge dirti gilt cornic , with dingi yellow satin hang to the bar window which look into cursitor street vast and dirti gilt picture-fram surround piec sport and sacr , all of which work were by the greatest master ; and fetch the greatest price , too , in the bill transact , in the cours of which they were sold and bought over and over again . the colonel 's breakfast was serv to him in the same dingi and gorgeous plate ware . 
 heat , but do not let boil. serv with good dark pumpernickel. serv 4 to 6 . 
 at half after five i went below to set the cabin tabl , but i hard knew what i did , for my eye and brain were fill with the vision of a man , white-fac and trembl , comic like a bug , cling to the thrash gaff . at six o'clock , when i serv supper , go on deck to get the food from the galley , i saw harrison , still in the same posit . 
 add cayenne. serv hot or cold , garnish with parsley. serv 4 to 6 . 
 boil for 3 hours. to serv , reheat by steam , or wrap pud in foil paper and heat in oven . 
 i see no reason food should n't be nutriti and consist with the patient 's treatment. i ve seen hospit where they ve serv egg to heart patient . '' 
 the addit of an unusu sauc set ost kaga ( swedish chees cake ) apart from more well-known varieti . sauc is best serv warm with chill cake , but may also be serv cold . 
 `` now we are find out what the econom of the busi realli are . `` for fine restaur , rise labor cost loom as potenti disast , becaus a larg proport of their cost are built into the prepar of eleg dish serv in style , and their breakeven point is high . 
 grill as you do loin chop ( see abov ) . serv on toast with a garnish of watercress and crisp potato chip . 
 so it was that night . the woman in whose hous we stay serv us an excel soup and chicken pot with veget . 
 sprinkl with powder sugar. serv with raspberri sauc . 
 but as meet have becom more numer and elabor , mani compani have begun hire full-tim planner to help organ meet and control costs. the planner arrang everyth from travel and lodg to speaker and recreat activ to the kind of coffe serv at late-night session . 
 oh , that 's no good. that 's where they serv cardboard instead of meat . 
 top with a sprinkl of fresh ground black pepper and chop parsley. serv with rice . 
 season with salt and cayenne. add ice cube to dilut and serv veri cold. serv 6 . 
 remov with two pot holders. serv warm ( not hot ) with 1 cup heavi cream beaten until stiff , then sweeten with 2 tablespoon sugar and flavor with 2 teaspoon vanilla extract ; or serv with vanilla ice cream . 
 `` they need some quirki individu up there , some market peopl , '' contend alta cool , the editor of for your inform , an industri newsletter. other consid mr. chandler , who serv coffe to his colleagu on the compani plane , too nice to make further hard-nos cost-cut move that they consid necessari . 
 digest is made easi and complet , so that everi atom feeds. it 's a great mistak to serv such food infrequ ... . it is an interest piec of copi , with it temper phrase and it modest and mysteri claim that `` everi atom feed . '' 
 then he drank some whiskey and , though it was veri littl , it affect him immedi and he look half-daz when the waiter from room-servic knock on the door and enter with a tray . he had forgotten that he had order dinner to be serv in his room . 
 tri to plan a meal which will includ his favorit food and , especi if he 's a great outdoor cook , not the sort of food he alreadi cook superbl himself ! i think most men will like the parti beef stew suggest below ; in fact i 'm sure of it from have serv it to so mani . 
 i have work to do and so , i imagin , have you. pleas tell than to serv cocktail in the live room again this even . 
 mereweth felt a sudden warmth for this man ; at least he had experi as an offic in the navi and should not be unreason in his demands. `` sir , i alway remain on deck with the pilot while we are in the hoogh , but you are welcom to use my cabin and have sangh serv you lunch , anyth you want . 
 when it is smooth and thick , add the dri beef , pull apart into small pieces. blend thorough and serv over toast or toast muffin . 
 asparagus with too much white stalk is a wast of money , unless it is be sold at a bargain price. if you prefer to serv onli the tip of the asparagus , save the green stalk for soup or a souffle. hot , fresh asparagus is delici enough serv with plain melt butter . if you want a more elabor sauc , serv hollandais , crumb brown in butter or brown butter. cold asparagus should be serv with vinaigrett sauc ( see salad dress ) or mayonnais . 
 simpli add more liquid ( lentil broth or wine ) if it tend to get dry. with this casserol serv an onion and lettuc salad dress with oliv oil and lemon juic ( instead of vinegar ) and a good red wine . 
 this is a parti salad , so make it look as pretti as you can . do n't let it stand around befor serv . it must be serv cold . 
 if you do n't feed us soon , we ll all die of starvat and end up pluck harp in heaven ! `` mr. hunter motion to his wife to start serv dinner . `` 
 place in preheat oven and bake , uncov , until a brown crust form on top. serv at once. serv 4 . 
 garnish with dollop of whip cream or piec of fresh fruit . serv 6 to 8 . 
 from the ravag south bronx to the central citadel , just a few block from the gleam citicorp center , the armi 's christian soldier open their door night to the homeless , of whom there are probabl between 30,000 and 60,000 throughout the city. on thanksgiv , soldier and volunt serv turkey-and-cranberri dinner to near 8,500 peopl . 
 pull off the apron and split the bodi in two. leav the crab in the shell if you wish to serv it cold with mayonnais , or pick out the meat from the bodi and from the leg . 
 arrang the cook bird on a platter , remov the string and carv as you would a roast chicken. serv with creami mash potato , butter noodl or rice. 1. you may serv the broth first as a soup cours . 
 if the breast are not crisp enough , run them under the broiler for the last few minutes. serv with fri rice , butter asparagus and garlic or herb bread . 
 when he came to power he lost no time in start a crusad for prohibit . with pistol in hand he went into a late-night bar that was still serv alcohol ( uncertain as to the new regim 's polici ) and person clear it out . 
 he took extra care to includ our servant in convers , but he did it without be patron or make a show of it . when invit to dinner as our guest he was serv by abdul and khalid , but his ident was with them as a fellow afghan , and it was well establish . 
 a year later , in 1981 , the cranberri partner open the play in philadelphia with a new cast , and in 1982 , the chicago product open , in a 300-seat theater that the coupl had creat from a ballroom at the blackston , an old downtown hotel. the play is alway done cabaret style , with the audienc jam around tini tabl and serv cocktail at intermiss . 
 bake in a dg375 oven for 30 to 45 minut , or until done when test with a fork. serv with plenti of butter , salt and pepper . 
 it is wise to have wire , a stepladd , and other possibl need tool at hand . the food serv will depend on the time of day . it usual rang from christma eggnog with fruitcak , to heartier late-supp fare like oyster stew or onion soup serv in mug and accompani by garlic bread and relish . 
 instead we took a littl trip to the white mountain in new hampshir , drive over mani of the road we had driven along forti year befor on our first honeymoon . we found a love old new england inn in the midst of the mountain where the most delici food was serv and where we could rest and reliv the year we had spent togeth as husband and wife . 
 and they can spend their valuta-kupon in the beryozka ( birch tree ) store for foreign in moscow. a `` close distribut `` system likewis provid expens fur for the leader ' wive to wear at state function or delicatessen item for a moscow hostess to serv to foreign dignitari . 
 garnish with the reserv dice melon and mint leav . serv 4 . 
 garnish with chop chives. serv shrimp cook and peel but with tail left on ( see shrimp , page 111 , v2 ) with a sharp dunk sauc . 
 store and let ripen at least three day . sweet potato in some form were alway serv with holiday meal . 
 as soon as you step on the plane , a beauti stewardess take your coat and lead you to the captain 's loung . right way she start serv the booz . 
 his companion 's voic reach me , utter inarticul . he should have been taken home to bed , but was instead be serv a nightcap . 
 strain the bouillon over the veget and egg , and sprinkl with chop scallion . serv 6 . 
 well , i ve becom indiffer , as a matter of fact , and there 's someth to be said for it . onc one discov that food tast just as good serv from card tabl and eaten with dimestor cutleri , one is consider less vulner . `` 
 make a dumpl dough 11 , v1 ) and add 4 tablespoon of chop parsley to the flour when you mix the dumpl . drop spoon of this mixtur over the surfac of the stew a few minut befor serv time . 
 bake in a dg375 oven for 30 minut or until puf and brown. serv at onc with whip cream or a custard sauc flavor with the liqueur . 
 i have yet to eat a ready-cook shrimp that was not overdon , dri and tasteless , and this shellfish is so easi to prepar yourself that it seem unnecessari to depend on the fish dealer to do the cooking. one pound of unshel raw shrimp will serv 2 person ampli for a main cours , and 4 person for appet . 
 it reheat beautifully. serv in a big bowl with arrang to keep it hot . 
 pour the hot soup over the potato , and garnish with crouton if desir . serv 6 . 
 if desir , addit sour cream may be ad as garnish. serv with dark bread. serv 4 . 
 press the herb in firm with the heel of your hand so that it stick in the meat. broil accord to your favorit method ( see abov ) and serv on a hot platter . 
 `` the hotel help did n't even say , `` i told you so `` ; they sigh and went to her rescu . later we were serv a six-cours dinner . 
 i bought two crisp loav of bread and wolf them down as i wander through the alleyway of the old town . but the meal left me so hungri that i bold went into a restaur , explain that i had lost my ration ticket , and ask to be serv anyway . 
 furthermor , the experi gain will stand you in veri good stead for the rest of your life . in the five dinner which follow i have arbitrarili assum that they will be serv at seven o'clock . 
 when cool , stir , cover , and place in refriger . just befor serv , beat for a moment to be sure the sauc is complet smooth . 
 my stomach 's still tri to break that thing down into someth i can live on , just like a big piec , two big piec , of bathroom tile with some mastic in between . serv hot . 
 various dish of `` dip `` , breadstick , salt nut , cracker , chees , hot and cold canap ( constant replenish ) , and other appet are place along both side of the tabl . frozen hor d'oeuvr can be bought in advanc , pop into the oven and serv pipe hot . 
 `` i want to talk to charli . `` he went to where the bartend was serv , and jowett glare at timken . 
 largest of all is moet & chandon , the `` general motor of champagn , `` which now sell about 17 million bottl a year compar with onli five million from it nearest rival. from the expert i learn a lot about how to serv champagn often flat contradict what 's consid genteel practic elsewher . 
 let cool to room temperature. serv from the pie plate at room temperatur or chill . 
 cover and shake well. serv in chill glasses. serv 8 . 
 becaus of an urgent command from your gut . for dinner tonight , the tall ladi serv corn bread , black-ey pea and chitterl better known as chit'lin . 
 line a salad bowl with lettuc leav and fill the center with veget salad . serv 8 . 
 around five o'clock , with the bar pack and the boss and myself go like a pair of red-shank who should come slope in but the cracker and slink in after him his young brother merley a shifty-ey jackal , if ever there was one . they push their way up the crowd bar to where myko was serv . 
 i was impati not to have been call to translat . i saw marko and demetrio and webb eat a meal which the woman , maria , serv them , and i knew then that i would not be call . `` 
 i board a small motor boat which sail across the bay to the ancient chateau d'if , known best as the prison of the fictiti count of mont cristo . that night i stroll through the eleg quarter and surrend to a quiet even in a cozi restaur where i was serv an excel dinner in old-fashion splendor . 
 heat through , but do not boil or the cream will curdle. season to tast and serv on toast . 
 top each portion with a dollop of whip cream and sprinkl with minc parsley . serv 6 to 8 . 
 bake as you do appl pie ( abov ) . serv warm with heavi cream or sour cream . 
 pour over the lamb ball . serv 6 to 8 . 
 add the bourbon to the peach and juic and let them stand in this mixtur , turn them occasion to be sure they are even bathed. serv cold . 
 garnish with crouton , if desir . serv 4 . 
 season with salt and pepper and roast at dg375 for about 35 minut , or until a meat thermomet insert in the fleshi part regist dg145 to dg150. serv with crisp fri potato . 
 discard bone , cut the meat into small piec and return to soup. serv pipe hot , garnish with chop parsley or dill. serv 8 to 10 . 
 a crisp green , such as broccoli , brais lettuc or brais celeri goe well with this goulash , and pickl are an appropri addition. for dessert serv cinnamon-flavor bake appl with heavi cream . 
 she want to have both hand free for shove food into her mouth . i ve been to cater wed where they serv less food than my wife consum in one even watch the `` late show . `` 
 it is call the cessat meal becaus it preced a day of fast . `` challah `` is serv and bless by the father , as at rosh hashonah . 
 do n't leav children alon , without an older person with them. if you do not have someon to help you , serv refresh which you can put on the tabl in advanc . 
 the stock will form a firm but tender jelly. slice to serv , jelli and all. serv 20 . 
 her voic was perpetu stifl littl giggles. their head , one blond the other gray , seem to be float on cloud of smoke when i wheel in the trolley to serv them some coffe and cake . 
 they have strong individu flavour which may or may not appeal . the one wine which can be serv all through ani dinner parti without except is , of cours , champagn . 
 while such pyrotechn can be impress , most planner agre that success meet often hing on the mundane. linda carey , meet planner for dow chemic co. , see to it that onli decaffein coffe is serv at afternoon meet . 
 gentl reheat the soup but do not boil. to serv , float the egg-whit meringu on top. serv 5 to 6 . 
 make the rich cream sauc and heat the meat in the sauce. season to tast and serv on toast or hot biscuit . 
 too mani at one meal can be overwhelm . if you are serv a rich sauc on the main dish , serv a simpl veget as an accompani . 
 now she act as a kind of housemoth to spi in train . she serv a delici lunch of pea soup , spice beef and rice bake in light dough , red cabbag , tomato salad and melon , accompani by red wine . 
 arrang these around the tuna salad. serv with addit mayonnais and lemon wedges. buy firm pack , can salmon that can be serv in one piec . 
 soak in the vinaigrett sauc for sever hour , turn frequent to be sure the beet strip are even bath . an hour or two befor serv , drain the beet and mix with sour cream ; or arrang on a plate and cover with sour cream . 
 i have count carefully. ky phat will serv more beer , and fleur will soon serv the sweet rice , which will keep them from leav . '' 
 pour into a butter and sugar casserol or souffl dish and bake at dg350 for 30 to 35 minut , or until the souffl has puf up and is light browned. serv at onc . 
 but kiyoko also know that her job will involv a lot of hard work . for the 372,400-ton tanker will be crew by 30 men and four women stewardess who will be assign to clean , bed-mak , serv tea and meal and welcom foreign guest . 
 garnish with hard-cook egg slice and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 last year he open a restaur and inn. with the help of his wife and daughter , he serv noodl and put up travel for one yuan ( 27 cent ) a night . 
 chop the herb veri fine and add to the egg befor cook or right after you pour the egg into the pan. serv herb egg with a sprinkl of chop parsley on top . 
 remov the steam clam and discard ani with unopen shells. serv with bowl of the broth from the kettl and bowl of melt butter for dunk the clam as they are remov from the shell . 
 sprinkl with paprika or chop fresh parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 meantim , split roll and toast them on the grill. butter them and serv a frankfurt in each. serv 8 ( if you re also serv hamburg ) . 
 bartlett , on the market in the summer , are good both raw and cook . the comic , bosc and anjou that arriv in the fall are also good for both purpos but they are except tasti serv plain with a fine chees . 
 tradit , the sour cream is blend with flour and stir into soup , which is brought again to a boil . a more attract and much more delic flavor soup can be made by place a larg blob of sour cream in the center of each bowl of soup befor serv . 
 care staff monitor the distribut at each site. use this system , care has deliv 50,000 metric ton of food sinc our famine-relief oper began in ethiopia , where we serv 600,000 peopl a month . 
 put in preheat dg400 f. oven and cook 15 minut , or until pea are just done. serv with tini biscuit . 
 cook for 20 to 25 minut , or until the rice is done but not mushy. drain and serv with plenti of butter . 
 strain : if you like a veri fine , smooth sauc , put the appl sauc through a fine siev after it has cook . appl sauc and horseradish : this is excel serv with pork dish . 
 for the children , settl , for the most part , on health dinner casserol a beef stew or a chicken-and-ric dish that you know they will like. serv your husband his chop or steak , a bake potato and a salad . 
 i grew up on a farm in the 30s when you butcher your own hog and ate everyth but the squeal. in those day steel 's cafe at norborn , mo. -- the soybean capit of the world -- serv brain sandwich on grill-toast hamburg bun . 
 bake in 375 degre oven until golden ( 15 -- 20 minut ) . wrap in a napkin to serv . 
 anoth work assign for school children throughout hawaii is cafeteria duti . in most island school , a hot lunch is serv at noon . 
 tast for season and add salt if necessari . add the vermouth just befor serv . serv 6 . 
 he could feign such innoc when challeng that i soon gave up altogeth . when he onc serv pineappl upside-down cake with green oliv substitut for the pineappl , he convinc me i had order it that way . 
 well ahead of time wash the lettuc , shake to remov excess moistur , wrap in a clean tea towel , and place in the refriger to crisp. when readi to serv , tear the lettuc into a salad bowl . 
 saut the cake quick in oliv oil. salt and pepper to tast and serv with saute eggplant . 
 garnish with chop watercress or parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` but there are store `` `` what are you go to be serv your kid chitterl and turnip green ? `` 
 or broil to your favorit state of doneness. serv with rice pilaff , barley casserol , or kasha . 
 but whatev the reason , we clear regard lizard as unsuit for eat . we onc serv iguana at a dinner parti in south america . 
 `` whi the coupol ? `` say carl . `` becaus the coupol serv porridg at all hour and porridg make you shit . `` 
 correct seasoning. stir in the cream and serv hot. serv 6 . 
 drain well , season to tast with salt , fresh ground black pepper and plenti of butter. serv with lemon section or a cruet of vinegar . 
 there is one pavilion at monblaisir which aurelius victor xv had arrang a great princ , but too fond of pleasur and which i am told is a perfect wonder of licenti eleg . it is paint with the stori of bacchus and ariadn , and the tabl work in and out of the room by mean of a windlass , so that the compani was serv without ani intervent of domest . 
 syrian-american , howev , gather in the church hall for a feast on two kind of rais doughnut , zalabe and awam . the latter are serv with a sweet , lemon-flavor syrup . 
 tast for seasoning. serv hot with chop fresh parsley , or cold , garnish with thin lemon slice . 
 cook gentl until just tender about 10 to 15 minutes. drain the broccoli , season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with melt butter . 
 add crouton , toss again light . serv 8 . 
 crisp : dust the potato slice with a littl flour for a crisper finish. serv these with fri appl ring and crisp bacon slice . 
 garnish with the reserv whole berries. serv with 1 cup heavi cream or with whip cream ( see note ) . note the old-fashion way to serv shortcak was with plain heavi cream. if you prefer , howev , serv it with whip cream : whip 1 cup heavi cream until stiff , sweeten with 1/4 cup sugar , and flavor with 2 teaspoon vanilla extract . 
 could you cook a dinner ? even if you ve never tri befor , i think you could manag ani of the dinner suggest in this chapter and serv them forth with pride , provid you follow direct care and stick to the time schedul . 
 the yam has a more decid flavor and is veri oili . the plain sweet is dri and firm and need to be serv with an extra amount of butter . 
 he was on edg , and she was edgi , too . the motel serv a free continent breakfast in a sunni , drafti breakfast room . 
 in fact , bertha would have blown a gasket . then the stewardess serv lunch and i relax . 
 stir until blend with the pan juic and heat through , but do not boil or the sour cream will curdle. serv with the meat . 
 form into cake and wrap each one with a rasher of bacon. broil and serv on butter bun . 
 for guest drive into the park area or the garag , hang a big welcom sign to greet them. have some refresh readi to serv . 
 bring to a boil , lower heat and simmer until soup is slight thicken about 10 minutes. discard soup bone and serv pipe hot. serv 8 . variat : ( 1 ) serv with grate parmesan chees to sprinkl over the soup . ( 2 ) add a clove of garlic along with the veget and discard just befor serv . 
 milk was reserv for babi . there was butter on the tabl of the wealthier famili , and fresh fish was often serv , though seldom beef or mutton , which was reserv for sale in the larger town market . 
 as in our infanc , everyth is done for us and we do not need to lift a finger . our food is prepar by the chef-moth , serv to us by the waitress-moth , and our bed are made and our room clean by the maid-moth . 
 place under broiler until chees is melt and brown . serv 6 . 
 indian betel , also known as `` pan , '' is usual a bit of nut and gum from the areca palm , some lime ( the stuff use in plaster , not the fruit ) , cardamom and often tobacco wrap in a leaf from a type of pepper plant , also call betel. pan , whose pronunci is halfway between the cook utensil and the chess piec , is often serv with clove , coconut and mint . 
 top each serv with a dollop of salt whip cream or with crouton . serv 4 to 6 . 
 mani of the worship are famili live in welfar hotel and singl men and women who sleep in street or public buildings. after the servic , salvat armi offic hand out bag of groceri to the famili and later serv hot meal to the homeless . 
 do not drain off juic . serv 6 to 8 . 
 what can be better on a day like this than homemad pea soup and swedish pancak , or plattar , as we alway call them ! mama alway serv pea soup and plattar on thursday , and how we children look forward to that meal ! 
 bake in 375 degre oven until golden brown ( about 30 minut ) . serv 4 . 
 if you think so , just tell me and we ll do without it for awhile. i 'd like a gay cloth and napkin for the tabl in the alcov , and a set of pretti dish , so that onc a month each class could cook a meal and serv it attract . 
 is it ever welcom ! she thought , feel satisfi for the first time in twelv hour . the coffe , serv in a dainti cup with a proper napkin , was the best mari had had sinc she left home . 
 cover and simmer for about 15 minut . serv 4 to 6 . 
 pour over the chicken . this is particular good serv with a plain rice pilaff , cook in chicken broth , and tini green pea , french style . serv a bottl of the same dri white wine you use in the cook . 
 tast for seasoning. serv these scallop in cream with mash potato liber dress with butter , tini french pea cook with onion and a celeri salad . 
 brush the kidney and mushroom with melt butter and broil quick , turn often to brown on all sides. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with boil new potato and green bean dress with plenti of butter and mix with chop almond . 
 everyth we did , everywher we look remind moham of anoth stori . these thousand-and-on tale capsul into a singl rise and set of the sun began short after our take-off from palma airport , when we were serv a cold lunch aboard the plane . it was the same rubberi ham and drip roast beef that we were alway serv on this particular airlin . 
 after all , they say , confus about light is an effect and entertain way to deal with one of their major market challeng : persuad peopl to ask for the bud light brand in bars. when peopl simpli order a light beer , bartend are apt to serv top-sel miller lite . 
 will keep in a cover contain in the refriger for a month. serv over ice . 
 when you practic your exercis focus all your attent on yoga. do n't think about how you re go to pay the insur premium , whi your stock keep go down , or what to serv at your dinner parti saturday night . 
 season with salt and pepper . serv 4 to 6 . 
 pour melt butter over all and bake in a dg350 oven for 15 minut , or until brown and bubbl . these tidbit are excel serv hot with cocktail or serv as a veget with a meat cours . 
 if you use seafood , be sure it is not overcook , mushi and tasteless . alway tast salad befor serv it . 
 roll overlap edg over and over togeth , to seal pie and make a pastri border just insid pan . for easi serv , top may be score in larg squar . 
 drain thoroughly. place in a bowl and refriger until readi to serv with cream and sugar. serv 4 . 
 garnish each portion with a slice of lemon and a sprinkl of nutmeg . serv 4 to 6 . 
 swiss execut also adher to the rule but smile occasionally. the french honor some rule , smile and make sure the wine is proper serv at lunch . 
 i order anoth scotch for myself and anoth beer for cummin . after swell serv them and went back to the comic , cummin said , `` friday night he told me he had a hot one . 
 i 'm realli veri fond of bread and cheese. `` katerina drove the small car to a restaur guarante to serv fine steak . 
 and , as far as i can see , so is everyon else. that explain all the coffe and sweet they serv in their room at the drop of a hat . 
 this problem can easili be solv without anybodi , young or old , feel discrimin against . set up tabl wherev they can be serv conveni , cover them with different-color tablecloth . 
 sugar to tast and combin with blueberries. serv over vanilla ice cream . 
 each night in kabul a cannon was fire from one of the rampart of the old wall that surround part of the citi , and it boom out to mark the end of that day 's fasting. our servant would scurri out to their quarter to stuff themselv with date and cucumb slice to stave off hunger pang long enough to serv us our even meal . 
 remov the cook shoulder to a hot platter , cut the string and garnish the platter with tini string bean cook until tender and then toss in hot butter , small new potato cook in butter until golden brown , and a delic dust of chop parsley. skim the excess fat from the juic in the pan and serv the broth separ as a sauc . 
 add liquid from cabbag roll and simmer until thick like gravy. pour over cabbag roll and serve. serv 8 to 10 . 
 when the pepper are brown on top and cook through , remov them to a hot platter. serv plain or with a tomato sauc or barbecu sauc . 
 at the conclus of the prayer , he announc , `` i wish you all to drink in memori of a brave and abl young officer. mr. davi , you have my permiss to serv out a ration of rum to all hand . 
 cool the soup , then chill . just befor serv , beat with a rotari beater . 
 appar dinner was delay , he was feel the effect of the gin when the butler appear and made his announc . the dinner was serv in a larg dine room , bright with candlelight . 
 what hard work is recal ! the number of meal ( canin and human ) cook and serv . 
 add salt and pepper. pour sauc over the beet and serv . 
 recip for eggnog are mani and vari , from the veri rich kentucki bourbon version to those requir a varieti of liquor . when make a quantiti of eggnog to serv over a period of time , it is more satisfactori to divid the egg white and use onli as need , beat them up at the time of serv . 
 while borsch 's loss of popular appear widespread in the area , there remain at least one mountain retreat where hungri traditionalist are still demand the goods. at the concord hotel , the soup has grown so popular that it 's now serv in tall glass there. ( the hotel say guest were complain about the skimpi portion they got in it small soup bowl . ) 
 do not overcook. drain well and serv with plenti of salt , fresh ground black pepper and butter . 
 they are usual an econom buy . for roast for more than 4 person : select a capon if you are serv more than four peopl . 
 for beginn who like to see thing happen fast , the first seed should be quick-grow like radish and onion , or zinnia and marigold . be sure to celebr the first `` crop `` that can be serv with pride at the dinner tabl , even if it is n't enough to go around onc ! 
 if the broth still seem fatti to you , pour it through a strainer line with a linen napkin or towel . tradit pot au feu is serv as follow : first a bowl of broth ; then slice of the beef and salt pork with the veget and boil potato , sour pickl and hot mustard . 
 do not tri to stretch seafood. serv good-siz hunk of crab , lobster or shrimp and allow at least 1/2 cup per person . 
 if you do not buy the `` quick-cook `` varieti , be sure to pick over the legum to remov ani bit of pod or ani damag bean , and then soak them in plenti of water for 5 to 6 hour befor cook . white pea bean cook in the basic fashion may be dress or flavor in a varieti of way befor serv . 
 about 15 minut befor the veal is done , add 1 cup of ripe olives. serv this with butter macaroni and saute eggplant . 
 best eaten hot , but good cold . serv 8 to 9 generous as main cours . 
 the pioneer brought wheat seed with them , but soon discov that the rich humus soil of the south was too luxuri for wheat ; they had to content themselv with the hardier meal ground from nativ corn . for a long time wheat flour for biscuit , shortcak , or pie was consid a great delicaci , while corn becam a stapl in the southern diet and was serv in mani way . 
 dian kettler , who was in casey 's room at school , was help behind the counter . casey watch with admir as dian serv coffe in a paper cup with one hand and made chang for a dollar with the other . 
 but mexico has it own share of well-heel young peopl , and the corona boom in the u.s. is make them thirst for corona too. today affluent young mexican can be found order corona in the capit 's pricier restaur , place that in the past would have serv one of mexico 's fuller-bodi premium beer . 
 it should be on the underdon side. remov to a hot platter , cut into quarter and serv heap with petit poi , tini white onion and strip of ham . 
 `` macao was , actual , a sophist intern societi , in spirit as well as mileag a world away from philadelphia . grandpa 's diari tell of recept and dinner given by the great hong merchant , at one of which fifti cours were serv , from deer sinew to shark ' fin and bird ' nest soup . 
 eggnog can be frozen satisfactorili , but will not freez hard becaus of the larg quantiti of alcohol . serv approxim 25 . 
 when the omelet is most cook but still creami and not hard on top , slip the spatula under one edg and roll it over , fold it as you slide it out on a hot plate. serv at onc . 
 bake ten minut , then reduc heat to dg325 f. bake 30 minut or longer. serv cold . 
 tri a gumbo someday ; you wo n't regret it , for it is a fascin adventur in cook . it must alway be serv with rice . 
 cover and bake in a dg350 oven for 45 minut to an hour. serv from the casserol . 
 he went back to london on an air india boe 707 . curri , and hostess in sari , and breakfast serv an hour befor land , and when the plane touch down it was lunchtim . 
 if you use these liquid , omit the vinegar or lemon juice. serv egg cook in these liquid in soup bowl with the broth pour over them . 
 guest will have littl appetit for dinner . if you are serv onli ice cream and cake , serv it first in the earli afternoon or earli even . otherwis serv a simpl lunch , or a simpl supper , follow by dessert . 
 cook over low heat until shrimp is cook through about 6 minutes. tast for season and serv hot. serv 4 to 6 . 
 even a kitchen tabl can be set attract with place mat and nice dish . ani pictur is enhanc by an attract frame , and the simplest food will be more appet when serv attract . 
 sprinkl dill seed and dill weed over appl pie crust or appl crisp befor they go into the oven . sprinkl dill weed on bean soup just befor serv to present a live , visual attract dish . 
 reheat . just befor serv , stir in the cream . 
 beat in the chop onion and green pepper. heap the avocado mixtur on a bed of green , garnish with tomato cube and slice green oliv and serv with vinaigrett sauce. some veget can be cook in an a la grecqu bouillon and then chill and serv on green , as a salad or hor d'oeuvr cours . 
 add cream and chervil . serv 3 to 5 . 
 cover the pot with a tight fit lid , turn the heat down to low , and cook for 30 minut , until rice is tender ( not mushi ) and all water is absorb . uncov pot just befor serv ; fluff rice gentl with a fork to separ all the grain . 
 even the well-to-do villag may tast meat onli occasion . after breakfast the men either nap or tend their flock while women prepar lunch , general a pot of boil millet serv about 2:30 . 
 the first thing ani mainland notic about hawaiian social event is the varieti of nation food present . `` for a christma parti , `` one island say , `` you may be serv both orient and european food , with hawaiian poi , and have eggnog to drink . `` 
 `` the food look like a flower too , `` said timmi , see the flower salad of cottag chees and peach in a littl lettuc . the children were also serv peanut butter sandwich , milk , the garden cake and flower-pot ice cream . 
 come along and finish it while i unpack . `` dinner was serv by a uniform maid and there were candl on the tabl although it was n't dark yet . 
 turn them often and bast with a mixtur of the honey and lemon juice. serv these sparerib with crisp potato chip , a huge bowl of cole slaw and some of the heat marinad for a sauc , if you like . 
 here the process differs. bruis the seed , add them to boil water and simmer gentl for 5 to 10 minut , strain and serv at onc . 
 if desir , garnish with chop parsley or crouton . serv 6 . 
 os-cal has captur 50 percent of the total market for calcium supplement . at his mansion outsid kansa citi , kauffman serv cocktail with napkin that say : as os-cal grew , kauffman recruit what was to becom one of the most effect sale forc in the industri . 
 it was all he could do to control his laughter in my presenc and onc insid the hous , while i frantic brush off thorn and rose petal , i could hear the wail of mirth border on hysteria explod in the kitchen . even quiet khalid , who rare said a word , lost his reserv dure the even meal and could not look my way when serv dinner . 
 we sat outsid under the awn of the casino , tire , but hope that some privat session would jell . but the prize-winn had all disappear and the bar were no longer serv . 
 add to ingredi in saucepan. serv hot or chilled. stir in the sherri just befor serv . 
 tax-support restaur . last year , serv meal at subsid price , senat restaur oper at a $ 503,800 deficit . 
 someth 's gone haywir . `` freda gulp her coffe , grab her coat to ward off the early-morn chill , and left her order of ham and egg to be serv to an empti chair . 
 in ancient time , it was believ that almond offer protect against unseen evil forc , and it may well be that the first almond was put into the christma grot for this reason . the origin pud or porridg was a simpl affair , serv with cream or milk , sugar , and cinnamon . 
 add scallion and cook for anoth 5 minut . serv 4 to 6 . 
 i would suggest that you press one of your guest into help you with the make of these , becaus if you tri to cook all these egg in one pan and do it , as you should , over a low heat , it will take forev . the object of ad the extra egg yolk just befor serv is that if the egg have to stand even a littl while befor they re eaten this will keep them moist and soft as they should be . 
 she knew that in the almeida home the day would be a quiet one . last night , on christma eve , carlo and guida had gone with their parent to midnight mass , after which a dinner had been serv to the famili and a number of invit relat . 
 garnish with slice beet and slice onion that have marin in a french dress made with orang juic instead of vinegar. surround with orang slice , and serv with heat garlic bread . 
 it should be especi good for christma , when there is so much rich food everywher . `` she ad that the controversi buch de noel is seldom serv for reveillon . 
 it should be cook slowli and be thorough done. a 4-pound boneless roast cut from the leg will serv 6 person . 
 chees : in soup cookeri , one will run across a few chees soup . but chees is most often to be found sprinkl on top just befor serv or gratine ( crust ) as in the familiar french onion soup . 
 he want to get us all togeth . he serv tea and biscuit . 
 follow the direct for stew blackberri ( page 111 ) . serv with heavi cream , whip cream , custard sauc or ice cream . 
 well , miss hope , will you be my second wife ? `` billi save her from have to answer this nonsens by serv stan with a second piec of pie . 
 place dish in a preheat dg275 oven and bake for 2 hour . remov from oven and let the pud dish stand on a rack or cake cooler for 1/2 hour befor serv . serv with 1 cup heavi cream , whip until stiff , sweeten with 1/4 cup sugar , and flavor with 1 teaspoon vanilla extract ; or if prefer , serv with vanilla ice cream . 
 buy a rib roast of beef and roast it just to the rare stage ( see beef , page 111 , v2 ) . serv it in paper-thin slice on well-butt rye bread , and have a select of mustard . 
 put raw veget into salad . it 's much less troubl than cook them to death and serv the remain in a side dish ! 
 `` our first custom sat down and immedi a hang plant crash right by her chair , '' say mr. sweatt. an earli attempt at serv an `` authent '' italian breakfast bomb . 
 garnish with sour cream . serv 6 to 8 . 
 if possibl , select the piec of meat and have it ground to order. mani peopl will tell you that 1 pound of boneless beef will serv 4 peopl . 
 this should take about 15 minutes. drain well and serv with melt butter and salt and pepper to tast . 
 it also provid an excel opportun for everyon in the famili to assist in the hospit . plan food that can be kept hot or cold over a period of time so that everyon will not have to arriv and be serv at the same time . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of chop parsley or chive . serv 6 . 
 allow 1/2 to 3/4 pound of fish per person and bake stuf , accord to direct for bake stuf whole fish ( see page 111 ) ; or bake without stuf , bast frequent with melt butter. serv with an egg sauc or hollandais sauc . 
 garnish with toast peanut . serv 4 to 6 . 
 just befor they are done add 6 fine chop ripe olives. serv with a sprinkl of grate parmesan chees . 
 a broad strip of christmas-r felt or oilcloth down the middl of a white cloth make a gay table. ( see part ii ) the dog day of august when the weather is so hot that appetit diminish tri a pick-up just for fun. serv hot dog , of cours , indoor or out , with all sort of extra such as sauerkraut , piccalilli , mustard , strip of chees , and various relish . 
 heat , but do not boil . put a tablespoon of sherri in each serv bowl befor pour soup . serv 6 to 8 . 
 garnish with chop hard-cook egg . serv 6 . 
 have the butcher trim the chop and scrape the bone. he should give you littl paper frill to add to the bone tip when you serv . 
 she examin the raw pork ball marin in the sink ; nem nuong , one of daniel 's favorit vietnames dish . she smile to herself , imagin the glow of pleasur in his eye when she serv them to him tonight . 
 this 1801 recip , use alreadi cook rice , is a find for busi women today . it is perfect with fowl , or in ani way rice is serv . 
 return to the stove and simmer for anoth hour. tast for season and serv over hot pasta . 
 often enough she had dine alon when martin was at the institut , but then he had been return to her some time befor dawn probabl and she had reflect munch a snack on the corner of the kitchen tabl , look at the funni in the even paper . tonight she had to live up to the butler , who serv her as though she were a dinner-parti of twenti . 
 tast for season and add salt and pepper if needed. serv the sauc with the chop . 
 sprinkl with paprika , if desir . serv 2 to 4 . 
 howev , we drew new pal name again so can now have the fun of tri to fool or mystifi anoth guild friend this come year . the guild girl again serv the noon lunch at our decemb semiannu organ meet . 
 broil until the bacon is cooked. serv hot . 
 sprinkl with paprika . serv 4 to 6 . 
 stir well with each addit . when readi to serv , beat egg white ( or as mani as need for first serv ) until stiff . 
 bake in 375 degre oven 35 minutes. serv with whip cream ( see page 201 , v2 ) if desired. serv 6 . 
 place in a pan of hot water and bake in 350 degre oven until firm ( 45 -- 50 minut ) . serv hot with cream to pour over , if desired. serv 4 to 6 . 
 place some chop fresh parsley in soup bowl and fill with the hot soup . serv 6 to 8 . 
 the anti-alcohol campaign is much more attun to the u.s. execut on a pritikin diet. alcohol is now serv onli between 2 p.m. and 7 p.m . 
 add the crabmeat and heat through. serv on rice and accompani with chutney and chop toast almond . 
 bake 15 minut , then lower heat to dg375 f. and bake anoth 30 minut , or until golden brown. serv cold . 
 his room furnitur was arrang to make open the window impossible. in the restaur , a waitress demand payment for the appet befor agre to serv the main cours . 
 it had start out as a simpl diner , but with the increas number of summer visitor come to wall from new york citi , pat farrel had expand his busi by ad an open-air patio with space for eight tabl at one end of the diner . the restaur serv coke and half a dozen varieti of ice cream , but noth as elabor as a banana split . 
 when they are done , remov them from the oven , split open the top and add a good-siz lump of butter to each one. season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and serv with addit butter , salt and pepper . 
 when we took off , there was no talk of fasten seat belt . when we were up in the air , a young steward serv us rye bread and salami and butter and chees and white wine . 
 sometim back he had made up his mind to shoot a deer for his cat 's last meal . he was sure the panther would accept a dead deer even if he did insist that his other food be serv aliv . 
 garnish with a dollop of whip cream and sprinkl with paprika or minc parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 blend 3 tablespoon of flour into the fat and slowli add the milk and cream mix , stir to be sure it doe not lump. when the sauc is smooth and thick , season with salt and pepper and serv with the chicken. with this serv creami mash potato and butter broccoli . 
 rememb the green , georg todd 's friend ? they serv cocktail or highbal almost everi even befor dinner , and consid drink a custom that increas the pleasur of social relat . 
 he come here , they say , from a neighbor town on the main rout to mexico citi , but either he has not receiv the mani messag we have left for him or he has not had ice to spare us . meanwhil , coca-cola is serv cold everywher , and becaus bottl in the store are surround with beauti ice , we know he has pass through . 
 if you like the brown crust mix through the hash , turn it occasionally. serv corn beef hash plain or top with a poach or fri egg . 
 it was a delici sensat to be cook his own supper in the cool of the cottag with the heat outsid , and when the fish began to sizzl he becam veri hungri . he serv them up on a plate with the pea and ate his meal on the veranda while he look at the lake . 
 fill neck caviti first , close , then fill bottom cavity. to serv , dress may be spoon out , or remov in a chunk from the fowl and slice like bread or dumpl . 
 then turn and finish cook on the other side. serv plain or with a sharp barbecu sauc . 
 ted 's episcopalian bless was brief , dignifi . the food was good , beauti serv , but limit . 
 victorin and madam coutur slept until late in the morn , and vautrin , who had gone out befor eight o'clock , return at the veri moment that breakfast was put upon the tabl . so nobodi protest when , at a quarter past eleven , sylvi and christoph knock at all the door and announc that breakfast was serv . 
 season with salt , white pepper and paprika. serv hot or cold . 
 `` oh , yes ! `` she thought a chili was someth cool , as it name import , and was serv with some . 
 wear a pink or red carnat honor mother if she is aliv ; a white flower if she is dead . the famili usual goe out to dinner , or anoth member of the famili prepar and serv it , give mother the pleasur of a meal she did n't cook . 
 then the babi get his first big drink of the day , in a bottl if he prefer it that way . breakfast is serv to all the famili . 
 top with the other halv and broil or pan-broil as above. serv in butter , toast bun . 
 washington had move his headquart to the old ferri inn , which was run by mckonkey and which still stand today on the west bank of the delawar . old mckonkey had the energi and excit of a boy ; he was heart and soul with the rebel caus , and for two day he went without sleep , cook and serv twenty-four hour a day . 
 let the mushroom cook down until they are veri rich almost black. mix with plenti of whole toast almond and serv the casserol with the mushroom-almond mixtur spread over the top . 
 when water return to the boil , cook 3 minut . drain corn , cover kettl , and bring it to the picnic tabl as is , serv plenti of butter for the guest to add themselv . serv 8 . 
 a guest must be a guest , then , and welcom glad whatev was offer . the second cours was fish , serv on flat plate of leather . 
 chill until ici cold . just befor serv , stir in the cream and sprinkl with chive . serv 6 to 8 . 
 when rais dough is readi for the oven and in it pan , brush top with egg yolk light thin with water and sprinkl on poppi seed generously. when bread is bake serv with butter only. serv demitass for demigod crush a coriand seed the symbol of immort in the bottom of each cup befor serv after dinner coffe . 
 skim the excess fat from the liquid in the kettl and add more broth or other liquid to make enough for sauce. thicken with ball of butter and flour knead togeth ( see beurr mani abov ) and serv separ in a sauceboat . 
 frittata are a workingman 's lunch dish in itali , sometim eaten for dinner. mani patron brag of have sauc recip superior to what was serv at oliv garden . 
 add the cherri and simmer gentl until they are just done. serv warm or cold with whip cream , ice cream or custard sauc . 
 if desir , garnish with sprig of watercress . serv 4 . 
 garnish with pumpernickel crouton . serv 6 to 8 . 
 sprinkl with toast sliver almond . serv 4 to 6 . 
 christin and her father kept their eye rivet upon their plates. madam p. began to serv them ; she ask christin to hold out her plate . 
 four larg tent had alreadi been pitch in a field . as the marcher line up for supper ( three ton of spaghetti ) , which was serv to them on paper plate , from brand-new garbag pail , night fell . 
 hobomok climb to the roof of the hut and shout for squanto , who soon came ambl along with mani indian behind him , all rather fear and carri the choicest of their provis as a peac offer . in the morn the pilgrim were serv breakfast in squanto 's hut , and to them came `` all whose heart were upright . `` 
 season with salt and pepper and add a pinch of cayenn . serv 6 to 8 . 
 then there was the solicit queri i receiv from consum report : `` did you know that the oxal acid in spinach impair the absorpt of calcium from ani food digest with it ? . . . spinach is n't the ideal veget to serv regular at the dinner tabl . '' 
 arrang the cook corn beef on a hot platter and surround it with the vegetables. serv with bake or boil potato and a varieti of good mustard and pickl . 
 it is love if the whole famili can sit togeth in the pew , even on this busi day for the housewif . sometim it can be arrang if the dinner is serv late in the afternoon . 
 heat the bread in a dg350 oven for about 12 minutes. cut it into thick slice and serv with garlic butter ( see page 111 , v4 ) . 2 . 
 make a shortcak ( page 11 , v1 ) . sugar the berri to tast and serv them on the shortcak . 
 heat until the oyster edg curl. serv at onc , sprinkl with paprika or chop parsley. serv 4 . 
 place a larg spoon of sour cream in each soup plate befor fill with hot soup. serv with thick slice of dark pumpernickel bread. serv 6 to 8 . 
 cool to room temperature. cut into squar to serv . 
 they are alway with us , they are plenti and they are cheap . yet anyon who has enjoy the result of a summer veget garden know how delect tini new green bean can be when cook just right , drain well , butter well and serv pipe hot . 
 he rememb the glow of the fire upon the curv of a certain great amethyst glass jar . the meal was delici , the wine excel , as was the brandi serv with the coffe . 
 look for the high season italian ham call prosciutto or for westphalian ham . these should be slice paper thin and serv with thin slice of pumpernickel or rye bread . prosciutto is especi good serv with fruit , such as melon . 
 when you came to 201 there was a hearti welcom , a kind smile , a good dinner , and a jolli shake of the hand from the host and hostess there , just for all the world as if they had been undisput master of three or four thousand a year and so they were , not in money , but in produc and labour if they did not pay for the mutton , they had it : if they did not give bullion in exchang for their wine , how should we know ? never was better claret at ani man 's tabl than at honest rawdon 's ; dinner more gay and neat serv . 
 roast accord to direct for roast leg of lamb. serv this with rice pilaff . 
 by constant monitor the system , the comput increas desalin effici and may be abl to predict system failur , prevent cost breakdown , mr. fredkin added. at a news confer yesterday , reliabl demonstr a prototyp of it desalin technolog by serv water from boston harbor -- one of the nation 's dirtiest -- that the devic had process . 
 garnish with chop parsley . serv 2 to 4 . 
 you owe him your loyalti . `` anger bubbl up in amanda and she was on the verg of an explos when the butler said , `` dinner is serv . 
 then cover them with dark rum . prepar the creme brule as abov and dot with the rum-soak chestnut just befor serv . 
 let it all cook togeth for about 10 minutes. serv with chutney , grate coconut , chop peanut , chop hard-cook egg and raisin soak in cognac or whiskey . 
 wrap in wax paper and keep in refriger ( they mold veri easili otherwis ) , or freez . remov from cold and bring to room temperatur befor serv . 
 a hot and hearti blend inde ! first : the day befor you plan to serv , cover 1 cup pinto bean with cold water and allow to soak overnight . 
 what was clear beyond doubt was his strong interest in clair lepeters. on hand to serv up the gourmet meal were four auto-theft temporarili on probation. midway through the supper , while serv a tray of croissant , one of them slip clair lepet a quick goos , tri to make it seem accident and to blend into the overal festiv atmospher . 
 halfway through the cook , add 3 to 4 fresh tomato , peel , seed and chopped. serv garnish with chop parsley and accompani by rice mix with chop ripe oliv and chop pimiento . 
 split hamburg bun and toast on the grill. butter and serv a hamburg on each . 
 the greek term would give a new perspect on segreg . restaur and bar could put up sign say `` onli leucoderm will be serv , `` which would look appropri ridicul . 
 big squar room , with high ceil , fresco in fanci scene so old and fade that they were like pictur paint under water . lunch , serv in a vine-cov patio , open on a garden full of flower and tropic fruit tree . 
 when the water level drop in their reservoir , peopl are ask to cut down the number of their bath , and give up wash their car and sprinkl their lawn . restaur stop serv water with meal . 
 they return home beaten without stand up to the challeng and spend the rest of their live wonder if mayb they should n't have stuck it out . even chow was be serv on the stori , and we happili accept an invit to join the crew for dinner . 
 garnish each serv with a dollop of sour cream or whip cream . serv 4 . 
 discard bay leaf . stir in the cream just befor serv . serv 6 . 
 bake at dg375 till set and a knife come out clean when insert 1-1/2 inch from center. serv warm , in wedg . 
 suggest accompani : saute eggplant is an excel contrast for this unusu steak dish. this is a veri simpl way to serv a larg number of peopl . 
 `` what do you hear , deetzer old man , `` foley said. `` i hear they serv a drink here now and then , `` the black man said . 
 how can you help ? by serv nutriti wonder enrich bread . 
 let it come just to the boil point but do not boil. when steam hot pour into the bowl and serv with toast french bread . 
 if you like potato brown in the roast pan with the meat , add them for the last hour of cooking. if not , serv the roast with saute potato , crisp and brown , and the pan juic , unthicken . 
 they want the system destroy , not repair , becaus they have lost faith in the abil of the system to repair itself and in it will to do so . the white man has forev enjoy the fruit , while the black man has patient serv it . 
 if these delicaci were fresh rather than frozen and took onli a few minut to prepar , peopl might even pay white-tablecloth price for them. with such reason , compani like campbel soup co. , general food corp. , sara lee corp. and some retail are rush to serv up their own `` fresh , refriger '' meal . 
 our peopl are rather well off , our infrastructur has been much improv , electr is suffici , the road are smooth. and , '' he inquir , serv coffe in delic herend porcelain , `` you ve eaten in our restaur ? '' 
 add 1 teaspoon of oregano and sever spoon of chop italian parsley. serv with butter noodl . 
 continu cook for 1-1/2 hours. remov the rib to a hot platter and serv the pan juic separ . 
 befor you take on ani entertain job , see that you are compli with local and feder child labor law regul . for instanc , in some communiti you may find that you can not work in an establish that serv intox beverag if you are under twenty-on year of age . 
 if the question jolt miller , there was no sign of it . he stood respect , hand at his side , as though about to say `` luncheon is serv . `` 
 `` i said the patient ' room would be segreg , and they will be. as for the other servic , how mani time do you serv bacon in the recoveri room ? 
 the food may be the famili 's prefer in cold snack , or hot casserol carri in an insul picnic case . everyon serv himself . 
 select your handsomest bowl , fill it with ripe appl , pear , peach , plum , grape ani fruit or combin of fruit you choose. provid individu fruit knive so each person can pare and cut his own , and with the fruit serv a fine dessert chees , such as camembert or brie from franc or the italian bel paes . 
 this will take about 10 to 15 minutes. drain thorough and serv with melt butter , salt and pepper . 
 it is cut in serving-s piec and bake with the skin on . as with the acorn , it is serv in the shell , but onli the flesh is eaten . 
 simmer , uncov , for 10 minutes. tast for season and serv pipe hot. serv 6 . 
 garnish with garlic crouton . serv 6 to 8 . 
 i call in a band of them and realiz i could not trust concepcion to be simon legree. she show a disturb tendenc to flirt and serv beer . 
 tallegio , a rich but mild chees , also come from itali . ani good well-ag chees can be serv with fruit for dessert or a midday snack or be eaten plain with a cold buffet . 
 drain the bean and mix them with the pan juic from the roast. add 1/2 cup of chop parsley and serv with the meat . 
 place under broiler for a moment to brown the cream. serv immediately. serv 6 . 
 at the other end , in a small group , the briton . the kentucki cook tradit serv this special meal . 
 bake 30 to 40 minut , until golden brown. serv cold . 
 sure no one is expect to take serious faith ryan whittlesey 's curious , not to say undiplomat , complaint about the k-ration she is forc to serv her guest in her duti as american ambassador in switzerland ( editori page , aug. 14 ) . 
 chill . befor serv , add the cream and dice chicken . this soup may also be serv hot , but do not boil after ad the cream . serv 6 . 
 continu cook until the meat and veget are tender. serv the ham slice on a larg platter and surround with the veget . 
 this method will take longer about 10 minutes. when the asparagus is done , discard the lettuc , sprinkl the asparagus with salt to tast and serv . 
 `` i have a certain amount of respect for it ; at least my stomach doe . `` `` i know an almost secret place that serv the best in town . 
 `` when they had gone , i turn to the box : two small tomato , a packag of frozen pea , a quarter of a packag of dehydr potato sold for hash-brown , and six egg . `` dinner is almost serv , `` i said and start on the kind of improvis cook one learn to do when suppli are limit . 
 they say today 's bread can be trace back to the last supper. or make `` pull bread `` as it was made centuri ago and serv it with herb butter and chees . 
 on each plate was a bake potato , frozen green bean , a red pickl appl slice , and a slice of meat loaf which polli had decor with a catsup bell , squeez out of a plastic bottl . they also serv milk and small roll ; and for dessert , holiday ice cream and cup cake . 
 they realiz that none of their guest had said a singl word about the food . inde , tri as they might , they could not themselv rememb ani of the dish which had been serv . 
 so gujarat , it would seem , offer littl relief for the drinker. but go into a certain tea shop in ahmadabad , the state 's largest citi , order `` one local and one english , '' and the proprietor will serv a cup of indian tea at your tabl -- and deposit a bottl of whiskey on the back seat of your car . 
 the donor of this recip say she has seen chicken wing bone and stuf in the same manner. the wing swell up so with stuf that one will serv one person . 
 if you do not mind the peel left on , mere wash the tomato well and remov the stem end. slice onto a bed of green and serv with vinaigrett sauc or mayonnais . 
 stir in the oliv oil and simmer for a few more minutes. serv with grate parmesan or romano cheese. serv 6 . 
 `` mike here was the first boss i had when i came in from the farm . i did n't know much about serv food to citi folk , and i guess i was nervous and clumsi . 
 everyon here speak to you , the stranger as well as the friend. they grow rice , but they serv lot of homini grit . 
 garnish with the reserv mussel and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 4 . 
 remov all the skin and trim it neat ; then return it to the broth to keep warm. serv this tongu with caper-mustard sauc ( caper ad to mustard sauc ) , horseradish sauc or bottl beet and horseradish from the groceri or delicatessen. chop , butter spinach and boil potato are the veget general serv with smoke tongu , and they seem to go better with it than anyth els , with the possibl except of beet with sour cream . 
 it should onli take 2 to 3 minut at the most. drain at onc and serv with plenti of butter . 
 put a layer of chop parsley and chive in the bottom of the bake dish and surround the fish with slice tomatoes. bast with dri white wine mix with melt butter , and serv the fish with the sauc from the bake pan . 
 at the institut , langston was put into a student dormitori , where all negro guest were hous . but visit white were put up in dorothi hall , a modern guest hous for white onli , and were serv breakfast in bed by the black student . 
 khanoum-jun was as pleas as a bride with her gas stove , her electr refriger , her plastic-til floor , pale-blu bathroom , and white telephone. as she bustl about , help gamal to serv tea , i thought : when she was marri she live in an andarum and was wait on by a eunuch . 
 mix well and heap in the melon shell. chill and serv . 
 she was flushed. i guess that she had not been abl to serv agajon 's chicken , carrot , and french fri to suit him on short notic . 
 he ate mechan . he drank the wine serv with each cours , as he listen to the buzz of convers . 
 remov from heat and add the butter , stir until it is melt and well blended. serv hot , garnish with crouton and chop parsley. serv 6 to 8 . 
 add the spinach and cook over medium heat for about 10 minut . serv 6 . 
 `` sure . `` he serv me the drink and then start to read from his list . 
 a televis screen show a film of a slight sleazi diner , and the viewer is ask to touch the screen if he or she is hungry. the screen is touch again to order various item from the menu , with a fat waitress serv up the fare and offer editori comment. ( press `` dessert , '' for exampl , and the waitress appear with a tray of gooey treat and say : `` someth sweet , sugar ? 
 sprinkl with addit grate chees and run under the broiler flame to melt the chees and brown lightly. serv with crisp home-fri potato , a salad of cucumb and onion in french dress and hot french bread. for dessert , serv creme brule . 
 there , in the hall of the slain , valhalla , whose ceil was of gold and was light by drawn sword and not lamp , the warrior battl from daybreak to sunset . then those of them who had been kill were brought back to life , and all share a divin feast in which they were serv the meat of an immort wild boar and inexhaust horn of mead . 
 be care not to burn yourself . note ii this is a typic spanish dessert and was serv on holiday and import occas . 
 what you have to eat will be determin by when as well as where you intend to eat. tri not to serv a heavi dessert , such as ice cream and cake , in the late afternoon . 
 it is cover with a cloth until the bless and prayer which the child recit . the father then slice the bread , everyon is given a piec , and the rest of the meal is then serv and enjoy . 
 garnish with crouton or crisp bacon bit . serv 4 to 6 . 
 brush each cooki with hot syrup . when complet cool , store in airtight contain three week or more befor serv . yield : 55 to 60 cooki in addit to the seven ( or more ) sweet and sour , the pennsylvania dutch alway serv this pea salad with turkey on thanksgiv and christma . 
 meanwhil , put 8 tablespoon butter in a small saucepan , place it on a veri small flame , and when melt , pour it into a small pitcher. serv the `` lost bread `` hot with the melt butter and your favorit honey in a jar. note this is a light dessert , often serv with honey , syrup , or fruit sauc . 
 perhap the most controversi exploit so far was the one that came at the expens of the red brick wall of town hall. to set it up , a consortium member first went to the municip and ask for a permit to serv a communal meal -- a `` faellesspisn '' -- on the sidewalk next to the build . 
 he was abl to reassur them as to natasha 's condit , but did not feel that he could confid to the spezzi the true caus of her earlier distress . sinc they were both burst with curios , the atmospher was uneasi throughout the excel dinner which was serv to the four of them in the long , eleg dine room . 
 have a toaster on the buffet tabl so that each guest can toast his own bun and spoon the meat over it . serv 8 . 
 `` i ll see what i can do , `` said ellen rosenberg . they made plan to meet at an out-of-the-way diner on the edg of the citi , one that had warm light and serv drink and also delici , hot , open roast beef sandwich . 
 the dine room was cold , but the food was so delici that catherin scarc notic . edward had prepar a superb peke duck , the crackl skin serv first with delic pancak , follow by the tender , juici meat . 
 bake in a dg400 oven for 6 to 8 minut or until cook through and crisp. serv with cocktail . 
 cook until veri tender and done and brown on the outside. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with the pan juic , saute potato and tini french pea . 
 do n't put salad dress or mayonnais on the salad , as mani children do n't like it. serv it in an extra dish . 
 it will press into a firm piec of meat that can be cut into neat , even slices. serv cold boil beef with potato salad and a hot veget , such as string bean with almond . 
 there seem littl reason for make your own , but if you wish to , here is the recipe. this amount will serv 4 person . 
 garnish with crouton and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 their foal were rais as excel hunter and saddl hors , and mani were the hunt breakfast in the new dine room . the ladi of the manor hous serv their best food and wine . 
 i was left alon at my lunch in the dine room , one afternoon dure the second week of my confin , when mrs. duncan excus herself , explain that she had some shop to do befor go to work and would clean up when she return . i was grate for the peac , mrs. duncan have develop the habit of hang about and talk after serv my food . 
 it come readi to eat and is usual sold cut in paper-thin slice . besid be use in mani recip , prosciutto is a delect morsel serv with fresh fruit for a first cours . 
 bake in a dg325 oven for about 45 minut , or until hot and cook through. serv in thin slice . 
 mat slip about too much and look choppi . if the tabl is in the center of the room , there should be a decor of some sort in the center of the tabl , but never so big that it interfer with peopl 's serv themselv . 
 in itali , veal parmigiana is chop veal , roll in flour , dip in egg , then roll in crumb and chees and saute in butter . it is serv with addit chees and chop parsley . 
 sudden , she spi her mother who had , for a surpris , dress up like a maid with a littl white cap and apron . `` nannett , `` she said to her mother , `` we should like to have luncheon serv when mr. blake has finish take pictur . `` 
 the hour should be late enough that guest may sleep later than usual , but not so late that they will be kept from other leisur time activ . serv buffet-styl , a bowl of fresh fruit is both centerpiec and first cours . 
 cook fine noodl or vermicelli in salt water . add to hot consomm just befor serv . 
 he live in london near hampton court by the river thame with his wife and daughter . david eliad was born in london where he spent his earli childhood `` serv tea to firemen fight the fire in the london blitz . `` 
 remov the beet , grate , and return to kettle. serv with a spoon of sour cream in each bowl. serv 6 to 8 . 
 the kosher kitchen are now entir separ unit from the other kitchens. from them we serv about a hundr person at a given time , with menus present and choic observ so far as we can and stay within the physician 's limit . 
 remov from heat and beat in the cream . may be serv hot or cold . 
 add 2 cup veget stock . salt to tast and add cream befor serv . 
 cook until the meat thermomet regist dg150 and the veget are tender. serv with crisp french or italian bread and an orang , onion and romain salad . 
 blend and heat just to the boil point. season to tast with salt and serv in a sauceboat with the steak . 
 sarma is prepar in near all yugoslavian home for christma , be they slovenian , croatian , or serb . if ani is left , it is warm over and serv again . 
 pour the custard mix into the caramel line and bake as above. unmold on a plate and serv with a top of caramel and whip cream . 
 chill the weight mold overnight or for 24 hour if possible. unmold and serv with whip cream or custard sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 the joker , a gang from the east side , leas a loft in one of the warehous for a speakeasy. prohibit had been repeal long ago , but speakeasi remain to serv the underag , after hour , and to spike alcohol with drug . 
 mother ! `` mrs. bucket was in the old grandpar ' room , serv them their even soup . `` 
 `` if possibl , the first day begin with suckl pig , otherwis , roast pork . just as the soup is serv , the father light the three-prong candl . 
 cook them slowli until they are crisp and brown and thorough done. serv with mash potato , brais cabbag and a tomato salad with french dress . 
 continu cook and brush the skin with the mixtur occasion until the duck has a nice glaze and is done. serv this chinese-styl duckl with steam rice and chines veget , or with small white turnip smother in butter and sprinkl with toast sesam seed . 
 gradual stir in the hot soup. serv in heat soup plate , garnish with croutons. serv 4 to 6 . 
 meantim , split and toast the buns. serv a stuf hamburg in each. serv 8 . 
 he was dress in purpl and gold , and around his neck he wore a heavi silver chain which julius said was the sign of his kingship . the food was serv by the women , who brought in huge platter of steam hot meat . 
 when you turn the pineappl , sprinkl a littl brown sugar on the top and finish broil and glazing. serv with the ham . 
 he press for a feder indict against mcgraw for `` will possess a bottl of whiskey `` in violat of the volstead act , and he got it . the lamb , caught in the act of serv drink in the grill room , prompt expel mcgraw in righteous indign . 
 garnish with crouton , chop parsley or a dollop of whip cream . serv 4 . 
 the same three day are set asid for this examin throughout the kingdom . those take part in the examin are permit to write from dawn to sunset , behind lock door , and they are serv with light meal , prepar the day befor at public expens . 
 and you look to me to ve had enough , `` he ad person for my benefit. it was notic that he would not serv me ani more , which i took as intend . 
 brush split kidney with melt butter and english mustard. broil quick ( see abov ) and serv with sauc diabl ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 fold half into mixtur . add 3 tablespoon sugar to remain portion and swirl on top of eggnog if serv in a bowl or drop by spoon on top of individu cup . 
 poach it gentl ( do not boil ) until it is translucent. spoon out and serv on toast or serv as a garnish for meat dish . 
 cover pan and cook slowli over low heat for approxim 30 minutes. serv in hot soup plate or bowl , take care so that each plate has a select of fish , shrimp , and crab and an even amount of broth. serv with warm , crusti bread . 
 my older daughter has broken the tradit by have her cooki bake befor the thirteenth , for she is alway the lucia bride herself . she dress in white , wear a candl crown , and serv coffe to her famili in bed , let them tast all of the cooki . 
 `` they sat in ernestin 's room until supper time , and then went downstair togeth . mother was serv the plate , and drop pea all over the tablecloth . 
 then they would walk around all day half asleep , hungri , and irritable. imagin have to cook and serv three meal a day when you yourself have to abstain . 
 drain well. serv with melt butter pour over. serv 4 . 
 in front of each person stood a littl egg cup . the addison were camp , but they were have the same meal , serv with the same gracious , as they would have had at home . 
 flavor the peach with grand marnier or cointreau. serv plain or with a custard sauc flavor with grand marnier or cointreau. make shortcak ( page 11 , v1 ) and serv slice peach over it sugar to tast . 
 china , silver , and linen can all be arrang ahead of time , and the cook food take onli a short time to prepar . everyon serv himself as he arriv . 
 add a drop of green veget color and stir . spoon over salad befor serv . 
 heat in 400 degre oven until pipe ( about 10 minut ) . serv on a butter plate with a good pat of butter . 
 then she would lie on the couch for week and groan about her plaster of pari cast when the ladi ' church circl came to visit her. it was just a scheme to get mother to fix her hair and to get granddad to serv her supper and carri her to bed in the even . 
 turn the roll onc dure the cooking. serv veal bird on butter rice with appl slice saute in butter and glaze with a littl sugar sprinkl over them . 
 when the shoulder and veget are cook through , brown and bubbl , bring the casserol to the table. serv with horseradish sauc and bake appl . 
 and have instal the joint and veget on the sideboard the pud be cold the cook said good night and depart , plain for home . it was robert who serv everyth , silent , unobtrus and attent . 
 season with salt and pepper . stir in the sherri just befor serv . serv 4 to 6 . 
 then lower heat , cover , and simmer for 1 hour . serv 6 . 
 in case you do n't like oyster stew , i give you a recip at the end for a veri easi to prepar , veri good soup , all from can , which you may use as a substitute. on christma eve in england it 's tradit to serv a wassail bowl , and what could be better to provid for your tree-trimm ? 
 it can be serious , `` sam assur him . `` that hospit not onli has the problem of serv the meal hot , but handl them in a way not to offend ani patient . 
 though come to think of it , she had stay home most even this summer to cook rees 's dinner while amanda was work and she had been nice about it , insist that amanda need not worri , that she would have to learn to cook sometim , would n't she ? and even rees , not prone to give carol credit for anyth , admit that she was a good cook , that she produc better meal than amanda becaus she would rather serv steak than hamburg . 
 we spent the even more or less read , but most talk over past new year 's eve and there is a lot to rememb when you ve spent so mani of them togeth , with onli the break caus by world war ii . i got out the last of the chees and made toast sandwich , serv with a flourish and a hitherto conceal bottl of stuf oliv . 
 it can be use in a number of fish , meat , poultri and veget soups. and if you are plan to serv biscuit or dumpl , tri a pinch of crush rosemari in the batter . 
 add anoth 1/2 cup of white wine and simmer until the veal is tender. serv with rice pilaff . 
 `` lift `` rice with larg spoon until it is thorough warm and butter has been absorb . serv 4 to 6 . 
 some studio insid complain that mca has shown itself penny-wis and pound-foolish in attack frills. the compani , by mr. sackheim 's account , recent save about $ 300 a day by elimin a cater truck that use to serv breakfast to the `` hard copi '' crew . 
 for if a child has an inherit tendenc to be fat , it will be veri difficult for him to later learn to control the bad habit of stuf himself . the idea that children should be taught to `` clean their plate `` of everyth serv to them is ridicul . 
 remov the chicken and strain the broth through a linen napkin or towel . the chicken may be serv with the broth or reserv for other use . 
 wolf larsen and i , between us , cut off kerfoot 's crush finger and sew up the stump. mugridg , who dure all the time he had been compel to cook and serv coffe and keep the fire go had complain of intern pain , now swore that he had a broken rib or two . 
 crack the claw with a nutcrack so that the meat will come out easily. serv boil , hot lobster with plenti of melt butter and lemon wedges. or let it cool and serv it with mayonnais , green mayonnais or remoulad sauc ( see salad dress ) . 
 `` i can hard believ that she is the same girl i found here when i came home in august . she serv a well cook meal , but i was afraid she 'd sour the cream when she look at it . 
 if you are have a light meal , say a saute chicken , start with hearti hor d'oeuvr , such as tini hot biscuit stuf with foie gras. if you are have a fish dinner , do n't serv fish appetizers. serv someth made with veget , meat or chees . 
 follow the direct for hash brown potato ( see abov ) and just befor the potato are done , add 1/2 to 3/4 cup of hot cream . let this cook into the potato for a minut or so befor serv . 
 bake in a dg350 oven for about 45 minut or until the fill is set around the edg , but still a littl runni in the center. ( see custard pie , above. ) serv warm or cool , plain or with whip cream . 
 pour the fresh mix dress over the green and toss light with a fork and spoon until each piec of green is bath with oil. serv quick . 
 the owner were just proud of such build . they encourag visitor who , around 1905 , were inspect the plant each day in group of fifti to five hundr , enjoy a conduct tour , complet with tea serv in the adjoin clubhous . 
 the recip was great improv when the cow was brought to the new world and milk and butter were ad to clam chowder. first : the day befor you plan to serv , pick over bean and discard ani shrivel or imperfect one . 
 use the dine room doe , of cours , mean extra work for the housewif . a dinett , breakfast nook , or area in the kitchen itself where famili meal can be serv at the kitchen tabl minim `` dine room work . `` 
 roast this stuf , bone leg accord to the direct for roast leg of lamb ( see abov ) . serv with the same bean dish and chop spinach dress with butter and a touch of nutmeg . 
 an earthenwar casserol can perform splendid as a tureen stand-in . if you wish to make your soup present truli resplend , the tureen may be chosen with a decor eye toward the type of soup serv . 
 add veget , peppercorn and salt dure last hour of cook . serv 8 . 
 prepar as in the recip below , it make a festiv dish , inde . one advantag is that the cabbag roll can be stuf in advanc , then cook just befor serv . 
 season with salt and pepper . serv 6 . 
 garnish each serv with a twist of lemon peel . serv 6 . 
 combin milk and flavor and beat with a rotari beater , or shake vigor in a shaker or , easiest and best , whirl in the blender . serv 2 . 
 bind with flour and butter . add the milk just befor serv and season with salt , chili powder and cumin . 
 with fri appl ring : omit the onion and apples. serv with fri appl ring , mash potato , dress with butter and chop parsley , and an onion and avocado salad . 
 `` there was n't enough for the whole hospit or all the wards. alic was nervous as she watch the nurs on her team serv the first american at tea time . 
 garnish with chop parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` so alic talk to him . she explain that mani american famili , either becaus of a principl against the use of alcohol , or becaus they were not accustom to wine , never serv it in the home . 
 pour into a fondu pot or small chafe dish . keep warm while serv . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of minc parsley and paprika . serv 4 to 6 . 
 prepar celeri stick and cucumb slice and place them in separ plastic bag . leav tomato whole and slice just befor serv . 
 for decor , as well as extra flavor , follow an 1820 suggest : stick blanch , split almond all over the pud and set aflam befor bring to tabl . serv 8 to 10 . 
 in the fifth , a well-known spot on kaiserstrass , the fine linen had been replac with paper placemat and the eleg waiter with moros matron . the distast dinner came as a rude shock after the fine food i had been serv in marseill . 
 bake in a dg375 oven until the custard is set. serv hot with heavi cream . 
 garnish with load of popcorn and a sprinkl of snip chive . serv 2 to 3 . 
 and of all mankind , aliv or dead , the class he has least time for are travel gentry. he would n't serv a drink to a tinker , not if the seat of his trouser was patch with ten pound note . 
 `` right , sir , `` i said . `` do you wish them serv sunny-sid up ? `` 
 my own propens are most definit toward a gustatori outlook . it may be high `` unscientif , `` but as i see it , ichthyolog is splendid but it can be even better serv in a sauc and garnish with parsley . 
 ms. shepherd fire off letter to the magazin and the nation live stock and meat board , blame her publicist. she say she doe eat beef , and a peopl magazin piec on her recent wed note that she serv steak . 
 garnish with crouton . serv 4 . 
 simmer until the fish flake when test with a fork. serv in heat soup plate . 
 what soup ! and what an aesthet experi prepar such a varieti of ingredi and then serv them up in celadon bowl with porcelain spoon ( the silver one heat up too fast ! ) 
 pour sauc over them. put the stew in a bowl or serv direct from stew pot. serv immedi . 
 a wealthi matron hire a new maid just a day befor an import dinner parti and instruct her care on how to wait on table. `` now do rememb , mari , alway serv from the left and remov the plate from the right . 
 the meat are bake or made into ball that are stuf or saute . fish dish are use as appet , bake on an open-fac sandwich , or saute in ball and serv with veget and sauc . 
 if the soup is too thick , add a littl boil water dure cook . serv 6 . 
 variat : sprinkl the slice with grate parmesan chees just befor they finish cooking. soak cold cook celeriac in vinaigrett sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) and serv on a bed of green with or without mayonnaise. combin it with other cold cook veget and serv in the same way . 
 at each place sat a littl doll . the girl were serv swedish meat ball , green bean , carrot strip , potato chip , milk , ice cream , and cake . 
 season with salt and pepper . add the parsley just befor serv . 
 if desir , garnish with crouton and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 8 to 10 . 
 wrap the one you re go to use for this parti in a damp cloth or napkin , then in aluminum foil , and place in a 200 degre oven to warm. serv as bread with the chili con carn . 
 heap on a bed of green and garnish with hard-cook egg , raw onion ring and green pepper rings. serv with addit mayonnais , if you wish . 
 bake in greas squar pan in 375 degre oven 20 -- 25 minutes. cut in squar to serve. serv 4 . 
 most veget particular the non-tuber one , those that grow abov ground are delic piec of plant life . they should be cook quick in as littl liquid as possibl and serv up at onc while they still have their fresh tast . 
 remov hulls. this is an attract way to serv berri if they are larg and perfect . 
 balanc it care on the spit and roast over charcoal or in the rotisseri until the thermomet regist dg145 to dg150 for rare. serv with saute potato or bake potato . 
 turn with spatula. serv hot . 
 and a veri reward part of homemak is plan the right food for a famili . for februari i have chosen some easi and inexpens recip which my mormor might have serv . 
 use a mix spoon in one hand and a fork in the other , mix until the potato are well cover with dress . do not refriger rememb , this salad is to be serv hot . 
 pour into a shallow pan and chill until firm. to serv , cut the jelli soup into tini cube and pile into chill bouillon cup . 
 put the platter over hot water to keep it hot. serv with lingonberri , jam , syrup , or just sprinkl with sugar . 
 remov cover and continu bake for 15 minut , allow the top to brown. serv with custard sauc or plain . 
 then there is the tini white onion with the dri skin . this is the choic for boil and serv as a veget . 
 find a good butcher who keep a suppli of fresh calf 's liver and will cut it to your order. one pound will serv 2 to 3 person , or 4 if appetit are modest . 
 she close her eye , and open them to daylight . the sun was rise like a torch over the sea , and there was a clink of metal , which indic that more food was about to be serv . 
 suggest accompani : hot french bread is especi good when dunk in this broth. also serv a good green salad , a dri red wine , fruit and chees for dessert . 
 can or frozen blueberri can never do as much . this pie is marvel serv perfect plain , but if you wish , it may be serv with sweeten and flavor whip cream , as for indian pud ( page 11 ) , or with vanilla ice cream . 
 ice cold chees never has as fine a textur nor as definit a flavor. to enjoy chees at it best , serv a tray of various type and eat them with a good firm bread or crusti french roll . 
 stir in lemon juic and wine . just befor serv , brush slice of french bread with melt garlic butter and toast in the oven . 
 cook over moder heat for 20 minut , then lower heat and simmer for about 20 to 30 minut more . serv hot or cold , thicken each serv with a beaten egg yolk or a spoon of sour cream . serv 6 . 
 look for the brightest red stalk ; those that are greenish are older and tougher. a pound will serv 4 person . 
 cut paper-thin slice of cold , cook corn beef and trim off all the fat. arrang the meat slice on a platter and serv with a select of mustard , cole slaw , raw onion ring and thin slice pickl . 
 use ani of those recommend for plain omelet and pass it separately. chees fluffi omelet : serv with a chees sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 a littl pink at the joint will do no harm. serv chicken with degreas pan juic , crisp saute potato and a good salad . 
 footmen threw open a door . `` dinner is serv . `` 
 she prefer to think of him in that way . she serv up the simpl dinner and call her men . 
 with cream : add 1/2 cup of heavi cream or sour cream and beat it through the mash rutabaga. with bacon : serv mash rutabaga sprinkl with bacon bit . 
 garnish with grate parmesan chees , if desir , and chop fresh parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 noth had been said about our come back tonight , but that is angela 's way of drum up trade , which is slow enough here. they serv an arab coffe ( her husband is an arab immigr ) and a mexican brandi , for which they overcharg us outrag . 
 mix togeth the egg yolk and cream and stir into the hot soup . serv 8 . 
 `` foster recommend more use of visual aid and other devic to enliven the class . `` when they discuss instant coffe in a case , they should have cup of maxim and fresh-brew coffe serv to the class , so the student can compar the two . 
 cook over medium heat for 30 minut . serv 6 to 8 . 
 he call the head waiter and complain , not onli about the food , but also about his waiter . in great contrast was the old waiter who was serv two middle-ag ladi at the neighbor tabl . 
 one or other of the duke 's quantiti of wive would be detail to prepar a luncheon in her own hous , to which all import foreign visitor would be bidden . she would usual serv a `` yam chop `` , a dish of boil yam and boil fowl serv up with sweet palm oil and pepper , and wash down with mimbo , rum or brandi . 
 the dish consist of oriental-styl chop chicken and green bean in an italian-styl marinara sauce. it is serv over spaghetti , with a delic shred japanes cabbag salad , texa toast , and louisiana tabasco sauc -- all for $ 4.75 . 
 cover and cook over low heat for 1 hour . add the cream and cottag chees just befor serv . 
 pour into a heat-proof serv dish and cool for 6 to 8 hours. when readi to serv , sprinkl the top of the creme with brown sugar and run under the broiler flame for just a minut to glaze the sugar . 
 the larger , round , yellow onion , known as the bermuda or spanish onion , is milder , with a rather sweet flavor . this is popular , slice and broil , with steak and hamburg , or serv raw with slice tomato . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of snip chive . serv 2 to 4 . 
 your aunt said it was a memor day and would be memor for all etern . she told about pink bird who crash against the wind-screen of car in itali and who when dead were serv on toast . 
 moe said , `` not at all , monti , come on in. if you do n't mind us clean up while you have your dinner , i will serv you right away . 
 carri to the tabl blaze . follow direct for bake banana ( page 111 ) and blaze the peach with bourbon just befor serv . 
 season to taste. stir a raw egg yolk into each batch of scrambl egg and serv them on a hot platter , kept warm on a hot tray or in a chafe dish or in dish over hot water. serv 12 . 
 grind 1/4 cup peanut with a nut grinder and sprinkl each portion with 1 teaspoon ground peanuts. important. serv hot . 
 these are runni chees with a hard outer crust. serv with melba toast or french bread . 
 remov chicken meat from bone and return to soup. serv with a bowl of pilau to spoon into the soup. serv 6 . 
 dure this time , bast the meat onc or twice to help coat it with the marvel gravi . this dish is veri good serv with red cabbag and potato pancak . note as mention at the begin of the recip , this dish is easier to manag if prepar the day befor or earli on the day it is to be serv . 
 garnish with slice of egg and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 6 to 8 . 
 in the exampl use , not . from five to seven-thirti mean , veri probabl , that canap , and other littl delicaci and appet , will be serv but not a meal . 
 put all into a bowl of cold water and refrigerate. when readi to serv , dri on paper towel and place attract on a plate or platter with a small dish of season salt in the center for dunk . 
 `` sit where you wish , `` said brenda . the guest were serv italian spaghetti , lettuc wedg , big round oatmeal cooki , and of cours , the appl . 
 fresh lemon juic , by the way , should be use liber on all raw and cook food . most peopl get into a rut with veget , serv the same one continu , never take full advantag of the varieti offer . 
 constant bast make a moister loaf. if you serv this meat loaf hot , let it stand on a hot platter for 10 to 15 minut befor you carv it , to settl the juices. it is even more delici when serv just at a temperatur between warm and cold , with a salad . it is excel serv in thin slice the next day , and it make superb sandwich . 
 artichok as an hor d'oeuvr see page 111 , v4. stuf mushroom serv hot stuf mushroom , page 111 , v5. serv tini tomato , hollow out and stuf with salad a la russ ( page 111 , v4 ) , fine chop seafood salad or mix tuna salad ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 favourit everyday dish are `` jansson 's temptat , `` an anchovi dish , with potato and onion , bake in an oven ; pytt-i-panna , a hash of meat and potato with a fri egg or prefer two ; swedish meatbal , which also contain onion ; and thick pea soup with chunk of pork swim in it , tradit eaten in most swedish home on thursday . there are number of attract way of serv up salmon and other fish , and a great array of differ sort of sausag . meat off the bone is extrem expens ; nowaday , when they can afford it , the swede tend to serv it in the french way , an improv on their tradit over-cook of slice beef. but the most famous of swedish meal for it is realli a whole meal in itself , even if serv onli as a huge prelud is the smorgasbord . 
 the rest were either russian or eastern european . vodka was serv , and it was n't long after they had arriv that mr. davenport took on the appear of be drunk . 
 california is a verit garden of eden , and it culinari tradit have come a long way from the time when littl cake were made from the mash of the bitter acorn of the wild california oak . in california , salad are serv as a first cours . 
 tast for season and add more salt and pepper if needed. serv in a salad bowl and garnish with slice hard-cook egg , strip of green pepper and slice stuf oliv . 
 when readi to serv , unmold ( it come out veri easili ) and fill the center of the ring with ball of ice cream ( strawberri would be pretti ) or with ball of sherbet in various pastel color . serv 6 -- 8 . note : the ring becom veri crisp , so it is imposs to slice it to serv . 
 if desir , place a pat of butter in each serv bowl befor pour soup . serv 4 to 6 . 
 with shrimp : five minut befor the sauc is done , add 1 pound of shell raw shrimp and 1 teaspoon of tarragon. finish cook and serv over hot pasta . 
 add a few dash of sherri , if desired. serv at once. serv 4 to 6 . 
 devil beef bone : if a littl of the meat is left on the rib bone by the carver , these may be cook in the same manner as devil beef slice ( see abov ) . serv with sauc diabl . 
 `` the troubl with premium entre and dinner is that they are n't realli premium , '' contend leo shapiro , a chicago-bas market consultant. `` they are accept onli when compar with tv dinner -- in other word , wet dogfood serv on a prison plate . '' 
 the service-ori ambianc also make steep price -- $ 4.95 for a cheeseburg and fri , for exampl -- easier to swallow , he says. becaus women busi travel tend to avoid dark airport bar , host is instal brighter light and big tv screen in it bar , as well as serv appet and sandwich along with drink . 
 of cours , each guest want to examin all the place card befor she took her own seat for luncheon . for dessert , laura serv petit four which she had decor . 
 the ice can be decor with his name and a candl for each year plus `` one to grow on `` for children , or it can be decor in some other way that make it extra special . if it is serv at a parti , the decor can carri out the theme . 
 the french phrase hor d'oeuvr is an idiomat express that mean someth unusu out of the general pattern . as a culinari term it mean a side dish , general serv as an appet . 
 continu cook until the veget are done and the meat is tender. remov the brisket to a hot platter , surround it with the veget and serv with sharp horseradish or with mustard sauce. you can serv the broth first as a soup cours , if you like , and then follow it with the meat and veget . 
 simmer 5 minutes. serv on toast bun . 
 rutherford hay was tongue-lash by a visitor befor guard could grab the man. some visitor , in the earli day when tea , coffe and food were serv in an adjac room , flat out ignor the presid . 
 euell gibbon who is enthusiast about catnip recommend steep tea in a tight cover vessel , as it flavor and aroma are volatil . he serv his tea in a demi-tass with a slice of lemon after dinner . 
 drain the potato at onc , sprinkl with salt and fresh ground black pepper and put back on the stove over veri low heat for a few minut to dri out and get mealy. serv in their skin with plenti of melt butter . 
 cover and cook over low heat for 40 minut . serv 8 to 10 . 
 add nutmeg. serv with chop hard-cook egg and lemon wedges. serv 4 to 6 . 
 when readi to use , skim off fat , and reheat. serv with fluffi white rice and crusti french bread . 
 you could smell the burn charcoal and hear the mutton sizzl over the fire . there was rice and ewe 's chees and boil tea , which was serv in a crack earthen cup that we each took turn drink from . 
 perhap the child was not mine. if barton bester 's restaur were mafia-control , whi did not one of them serv italian food ? 
 stir into the stew . serv pipe hot in a heat dish with a bowl of the chill sour cream sprinkl with paprika to spoon over each serv . serv 6 . 
 pour over onion , and place tart in a dg375 oven for about 35 minut or until a knife come out clean when insert 1-1/2 inch from center . allow to rest 15 minut befor serv . 
 but he also want varieti , balanc , and contrast in each program. when a friend said he thought he overdid his prepar , rubinstein explain , `` you would n't serv a guest veal , beef , and chicken at the same meal . 
 and besid , she figur that all i am burn up is my own tree , and youth has to have it fling . she serv us a countri dinner , start with smoke fatback soup and end with white chees , that is reminisc enough of the return home of the prodig son to break your heart . 
 but no imit of gold would satisfi harun ar rashid , the caliph made famous in the arabian night . at the feast in his palac the roast of duck , turkey , and suckl lamb , laid in bed of saffron rice , were serv on dish of gold and jewel . 
 an elder coupl ask carol if she would trade apart with them becaus their was too big now that their children had gotten marri . carol said no. she serv no refresh but nobodi seem to mind . 
 do n't put them in salad dress ; they overpow the delic greens. serv blue chees separ with the salad cours , if you like . 
 slash the crust to let the steam escape. serv it pipe hot from the bowl in which it was steam , and with it serv mash potato and brais brussel sprout . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of snip dill . serv 6 to 8 . variat : to serv cold , omit the egg yolks. chill the soup and stir in the cream just befor serv . 
 gentl heat through and garnish with crouton . serv 4 to 6 . 
 so far , she has purchas a 12-volum leatherbound guid to the motion-pictur industri , a bear stuf with shred money , a shawl at gucci , an artwork in pewter , cobalt vase and handcraft toy soldiers. and she is still plan to serv caviar on christma eve . 
 combin with other ingredi , includ reserv pork , and simmer until well blend , about 20 minutes. serv as a veget with ani pork dish , or as luncheon entre . 
 `` merci , `` my mother said at last , `` my nose is shine like a beacon where 's your powder ? `` when my mother had gone down to start serv the dinner , aunt edna put away the ashtray and began spray attar of rose around the room . 
 both are delicious. one grapefruit of averag size will serv 2 person . 
 `` my compliment to our guest , and conduct him to my study. serv his dinner there , and request his permiss to receiv us in one hour . 
 top the chill soup with mound of beaten egg white . serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` i believ it is the custom , sir , in decent societi , `` said mr crawley , haughtili , `` to call the dish as i have call it `` ; and it was serv to us on silver soup-plat by the footmen in the canari coat , with the mouton aux navet . then `` ale and water `` were brought , and serv to us young ladi in wine-glass . 
 add milk , cream , and oyster liquor and make veri hot , but do not boil. serv with 8 good pat of butter float on top and a dust of paprika . 
 whip cream with salt until thick ( see page 201 , v2 ) . when serv , top each cup or soup plate with a dollop of whip cream . serv 6 . 
 buy these in packag and heat accord to direct on packag in their own foil pans. serv wrap in napkin , in basket if you have them . 
 top with fresh ground black pepper and a sprinkl of chop parsley . serv 2 to 4 . 
 heat. serv steam hot in demitass cup as a delight appetizer. serv 8 . 
 when the white is all white and firm the egg is done. remov the egg with a slot or perfor spoon , drain them thorough befor you serv them on toast slice . 
 tast for season and add salt if requir . befor serv , add the reserv whole pea . serv 4 to 6 . 
 the rosari finish , anni shoo him off to bed with the excus that : `` someon has to be fit to rise the morrow . `` she herself stay up till morn , serv tea in the kitchen to relay of mourner , make the all-night vigil at the wake . 
 i was at the hous when they got there. miss amma dean had brought ethel up there to serv the drink and the sandwich , and she had ask me to stay there to make coffe . 
 a crown roast of lamb is a doubl rack shape into a crown . it is general serv with mushroom , sausag or veget heap in the center . 
 season with salt . serv 4 to 6 . 
 top with whip cream. serv poach peach halv ( see abov ) top with vanilla ice cream and raspberri syrup . 
 place in dg400 f. oven until top is browned. serv from the casserole. serv 4 to 6 . 
 food. if your parti is held out-of-door , serv meat sandwich instead of meat and potato . 
 gentl heat through , but do not let boil . serv 4 to 6 . 
 if you have cook them in the shell , remov shell and clean. serv these shrimp chill , with mayonnais , green mayonnais , remoulad sauc , tartar sauc or vinaigrett sauc ( see salad dress ) . 
 with a strong lead -- the latest wall street journal/nbc news poll show he has the support of 35 % of his parti 's like voter , with the rev. jess jackson a distant second with 9 % -- the outsid has the insid track for the nomination. even so , the man who supplement his father 's incom by serv hamburg at scotti 's drive-in here is in a peculiar posit , an insurg who is forc to run almost as an incumb . 
 bake accord to instruct for appl pie ( abov ) . serv with heavi cream or whip cream . 
 they are sold by the pint and quart. one quart will serv 4 person . 
 be care not to let the sauc stick to the pan or burn. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with the stuf chops. with these fine-tast stuf chop serv polenta ( page 111 , v2 ) and zucchini saute in oliv oil and flavor with garlic and parsley . 
 garnish with crouton . serv 4 to 6 . 
 he smile ingrati at mrs. smith , compliment her on her trim appear , and said , `` i wish my mother would take up golf . `` dessert was serv , and jenni 's grandmoth suggest , `` you children run along when you re readi . 
 bast frequent with addit butter as the lobster cook or it will dri out. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with melt butter and lemon wedg . 
 anoth feel urg me to becom a good marin . the third week thing were still within bound until the morn they serv powder egg in the chow hall . 
 variat : omit the chili pepper . just befor serv , add 1/4 cup dri sherri . 
 garnish with chop parsley , chive or scallion . serv 4 . 
 this rich french dough can be made into the tradit bun with littl topknot , or it can be shape ani way you choose. it make an excel bread or bun to serv guest at breakfast , luncheon or , toast , at tea . 
 the float island he eulog was not the custard dessert we know today , but a veri rich beverag . undoubt it delic pink color ad much to the pleasur of serv it . 
 consid joseph duerr , a los angel real-est dealer. he want to serv two bottl of dom perignon champagn at a recent barbecu , and he did -- after pay about $ 69 a bottl , 56 % more than a year ago at one liquor store . 
 bast them occasion , and turn them over when they have cook about 1/2 hour . roast beef is best serv plain with the pan juic and perhap a littl horseradish or mustard . 
 `` okay , i ll go , i suppose. i just hope you serv up someth substanti befor we go , mom . 
 when they are hot through and thorough brown , they are done. serv plain or garnish with bacon bit and chop parsley . 
 this is not necessary. cook kidney quick and serv them rare . 
 bake in a dg375 oven for 1/2 hour , bast frequent with the broth or wine in the pan . this can be serv as a first cours , as a salad cours or as a side dish on a cold buffet . 
 cool to room temperatur , then chill in refriger . note origin this old recip was serv perfect plain , as given . 
 the `` smalli `` can join in this pre-dinn gather so that the famili circl will be complete. anoth interest variat is to serv the dessert somewher els ; in the live room , on the patio or terrac , in the playroom , or on the lawn . 
 flavor to tast with curri powder and add piec of cold turkey. heat and serv over rice. with this serv a good chutney , toast butter almond , chop hard-cook egg and some crisp tini green onion . 
 the tabl was load with roast suckl pig , chaudin ( stuf stomach of a young hog ) , bake chicken and duck , ham , rice dress , `` store-bought `` bread , countri butter , winter veget ( no frozen food in those day ) , and bake sweet potato . wine was serv , of cours , and at the end a demi-tass of pure black coffe made from home-roast bean . 
 surround it with the pig 's feet , slice salt pork , slice loin of pork and sausages. serv with the boil potato . 
 heat to a boil . add sherri just befor serv . serv 4 to 6 . 
 decor each egg with two bacon slice ( cut in half if you like ) . serv at once. serv 4 . 
 he saw the short , fat figur of davi come into the yellow ring of light cast by the battl lantern. `` you may serv out a ration of rum to all hand , mr. davi , includ such of the wound as the doctor may give consent to . '' 
 continu stir and cook until the sauc is smooth and thick. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with the roll . 
 they took the gourd from me when i hand it to them , and that was all. after they had drunk , they just let it hang there in their hand , and i had to reach and get it so i could serv anoth one . 
 reheat. with sour cream : serv plain bake potato with sour cream , salt , fresh ground black pepper and chop chive ; or scoop out the insid and blend with these ingredi . 
 the salmon may provid enough. just befor you serv , add a dash of lemon juic . 
 it has simpli been someth he 's alway taken for granted. he is use to see his famili have a glass of wine with dinner and usual , though not alway , serv a drink to their guest . 
 when they are brown on both side and almost done , add just enough marsala to cover the meat and let the wine cook down for a few minutes. serv sprinkl with chop parsley . 
 if your parti is small and if you wish to give favor for the parti , buy someth that make you think of the world , such as : small globe , a handbook of flag of other countri , or if your guest are stamp collector , a small packet of foreign stamps. refresh : if you wish to serv guest at a tabl , you can use the cake as a centerpiec . 
 phone 622-7886 4701 westheim , just off the west loop . sonni look 's sir-loin inn serv the ultim in texas-s steak big , thick and cook the way you like them . 
 here , at the ngiu kee depart store , cosmetologist demonstr the new bio line of natural-ingredi makeup put out by kenebo , the japanes cosmet firm. at the sha na na fast-food shop , `` halal '' food -- food accept to orthodox muslim -- is serv : halal fish-head curri cost $ 1.28 , while a halal cheeseburg goe for 68 cent . 
 clayton kept aunt milli laugh and , amanda hope , drove out all memori of the comment she had overheard from perri and carol . while clayton clear the tabl and amanda serv an old-fashion brown betti , the telephon rang . 
 to mani of us , fish mean onli deep-fat fri shrimp or can tuna . our neglect of fish is a sad state of affair , for few food are tastier than fresh fish broil gentl until golden brown and serv up with lemon , butter and parsley . 
 cover the pot again , turn flame down to low , and continu to simmer for 1/2 hour more . fourth : just befor serv , remov 1/2 cup broth to a teacup , add 1/2 tablespoon file , and stir with a teaspoon until smooth . 
 arrang the chicken on a hot platter , add a dash or so of lemon juic to the sauc and pour it over the chicken. garnish with chop parsley and serv with rice or noodl . 
 also a favorit dessert soup . serv 4 to 6 . 
 when they are done , cool them and then chill in the refrigerator. serv with mayonnais or vinaigrett sauc ( see salad dress ) . 
 other ham : can ham , domest and import , offer a shortcut in prepar ; they need onli be heat through. or serv them cold as they come from the can . 
 chef biagi , for one , agrees. he say that he enjoy it , but onli if it 's serv warm with a glass of milk . 
 cover and continu cook until meat and veget are tender . serv 6 . 
 allow 3 to 4 apricot per serving. peel and slice apricot and serv them with sugar and heavi cream . 
 heat until thicken , but do not let boil . serv 4 to 6 . 
 cook until veget are tender. serv with a spoon of sour cream in each soup plate and sprinkl with chop parsley or dill. serv 4 to 6 . 
 tast for season and add salt if necessari . serv 6 to 8 . 
 we are do a sew project in all class hope to complet it befor christma vacat . the 11th and 12th grade prepar cooki and candi serv at `` open hous `` sponsor by the home ec and craft depart held thursday afternoon , decemb 5 . member of all class assist with the prepar and serv for this event . 
 i had never had domest help in the state simpli becaus we could n't afford it , but in kabul it was a necessity. buy food in the bazaar and prepar it to serv is almost imposs for a western woman . 
 if desir , garnish with crouton or sprinkl with grate chees . serv 4 to 6 . 
 a famous after-dinn speaker was invit to appear at a club in a medium-s citi . as he step up to the lectern after the dessert had been serv , he notic that the usual pitcher of water and glass were miss . 
 they vari greatly. serv slice of melon with lime wedg or lemon wedg , and be sure to have salt avail . 
 sprinkl with slice scallion . serv 4 . 
 she had arrang to sell two old hen that were past lay , to the proprietor of the hotel . they would be serv there for supper one even to the resid and the visit commerci travel . 
 bring just to a boil. serv this sauc with the meat . 
 season with worcestershir and salt. serv hot or chill . 
 gray , flabbi , cold lamb is thorough unappetizing. be sure you alway serv hot lamb on hot , hot platter or plate . 
 `` go out to the shed , `` he say , `` and see what damag the coffin has suffer sinc it left the premis . `` i finish serv a round of drink and when i got out to the shed the feeney had brought in the coffin . 
 suggest accompani : bake potato dress with butter , chop parsley and crumbl bacon. rib steak vari in size ; a small one will serv one person and a larg one will serv two . 
 give them about 3 to 4 minut on the second side. serv with the sauc from the broil pan pour over them . 
 sprinkl with snip fresh dill . serv 4 to 6 . 
 it has proven to be quit help to the kid and challeng to those help them . mrs. swank 's senior class has been work on casserol and menu plan which will help them with their senior dinner which are be serv around christma . 
 over the year , the gotti have prosper by maintain qualiti in food , wine and service. chef may have come and gone , but the diner have kept come back for such menu item as grill lobster , bast with sea urchin coral butter and serv with a potato pure cream with virgin oliv oil , at $ 28 a portion . 
 juli 4th place a tini flag , stuck in a red gumdrop , at each place. serv flame peach : put a lump of sugar , soak in lemon extract , insid each can peach half and light it . 
 if the ad continu , said a spokesman for new york attorney general robert abram , `` we ll consid legal action. '' he ad , `` the fact is that food serv by mcdonald 's should be consum onli in moder . '' 
 the press is scream for dowl 's head . serv up with an appl in his mouth . 
 add the rice , if desir , butter and chayot piec and simmer for about 5 minut more. discard garlic and serv at once. serv 6 to 8 . 
 spread on thin , finger-shap slice of firm bread or toast and top with veri thin slice of tini white onion. serv open-fac or top with anoth slice of the bread light butter . 
 it is a delici season for all three. also serv saute or bake onion , mash yellow turnip , or brussel sprout . 
 season with salt , pepper and herb . serv 4 . 
 yes , sir . `` rubi invit her guest into the inner offic and serv bourbon and coke . 
 he would have answer to a question , those blind eye blink : `` my name is michael panyoti and i sing the glori of greec ! `` luncheon was serv . 
 stir care to combin ingredients. be sure this is well heat through and serv hot . 
 divid the won ton among 6 soup plate and fill with the hot soup . serv 6 . 
 with the engin off , there was no electr . the stewardess serv a few cold leftov from the galley , hold their tray in one hand , flashlight in the other . 
 a rich sautern or tokay or strong-tast german wine can be a perfect culmin to a meal with wine , but even the finest vintag port will not tast it best after such wine . there are other except to the main rule of serv dri befor sweet . when rich dish such as foie gras , alreadi mention , or smoke salmon are serv at the begin of a meal , dri wine may be consid a less suitabl accompani than sweet wine . 
 pour this over the kidney and rice , and garnish with chop parsley. serv with crisp toast bread and a beet and egg salad on a bed or romain . 
 he began her education. he taught her not to serv spaghetti becaus it was messi to eat and made it seem as if they could not afford to pay a butcher . 
 cook crabmeat , pick from the shell , is also avail in the pacif coast region , and this is the most common way to sell crab in the east . one pound serv 4 person . 
 `` they ll bend over backward to make sure princip is n't lost. '' guardian face a tough time account for `` everi glass of milk and one-quart of the potato you serv at dinner , '' say mr. norden , the new york lawyer . 
 slowli brais the carrot until they are tender . drain and add to the hot consomm just befor serv . 
 when you use a timer well , it keep the whole situat under control for you. do n't forget that it 's exceed import to serv hot food on hot plate and cold food on cold plate . 
 they had approach in the night , but had made no move to attack . the crew serv breakfast brought by the guerrilla : flat arabian bread , sheep chees , hard-boil egg and tea . 
 part of this is the strength of what might most generous be call tradit italian carefulness. with the common market , a river of butter could flow down to itali from franc , germani or holland , but italian still often serv bread and roll without butter . 
 tri grand marnier , kirsch , cognac , cointreau or benedictine. serv melon slice ( honeydew or casaba are best ) top with a scoop of lemon or lime ice . 
 make a stay-put past of prepar mustard , quinc jam , powder clove , dill seed and dill weed and cornmeal to spread on a small ham befor it goe into the oven. join appl and caraway serv littl side dish of caraway seed with bake appl . 
 just befor done add a dash or two of wine vinegar. season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and serv hot or cold as a relish with broil meat . 
 add soy sauc and pepper and bring to a boil. remov from heat and serv pipe hot. serv 4 . 
 mereweth was tempt for a moment to make some sort of maudlin speech about depart shipmat , then decid the truest appreci of jackson would be shown by an issu of rum. `` mr. davi , you may serv out a ration of spirit to all hand . 
 chill thoroughly. serv with a spoon of sour cream in each portion . 
 there we sat on the ground with the bedouin men and accept coffe scent with pungent cardamom , and sweet tea. the man name omir smile and said : `` we serv the coffe first , and then the tea , becaus life is most bitter , a littl sweet . '' 
 ike , the bald , round-fac owner , bartend , chef and bouncer combin , look at clay-boy with surpris and displeasure. `` you know i ca n't serv you , clay-boy , '' complain ike . 
 if the vote is close , we might have help put our side over . `` at six o'clock the women serv dinner to the refuge . 
 pour this over the cook , drain cauliflow and season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper. cauliflow hollandais : serv hot cauliflow with hollandais sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 add 2 tablespoon of the soup liquid . just befor serv , divid this mixtur among the bowl of hot soup and sprinkl with grate chees . serv 6 . 
 some guest may like espresso , other the usual demi-tasse. this is usual an adult get-togeth , but until it is time to say goodnight , the children might greet the guest , serv the coffe , or replenish suppli on the buffet tabl . 
 remov from oven with two pot holders. serv veri hot . 
 slowli stir into remain soup . serv 4 . 
 add the remain ingredi and continu simmer for about 30 minut . serv 4 to 6 . 
 season with salt and pepper and add cayenn . serv 6 . 
 stand the roll of cooki on edg on a plate or small platter as you do this and finish by spread whip cream over the roll thus made . place in the refriger for at least four hour befor serv . cut the roll for serv at an angl so that each slice consist of stripe of cream and ginger . serv 4 -- 6 . 
 this can be done after the roast is remov from the oven and while it is stand to let the juic settle. serv the pud cut in squar . 
 but later he has a fine chanc , after he is born , to get even with her. just when she most wish the new babi would stay asleep and be quiet so that she can be free to serv supper to the rest of the famili , the babi awak . 
 in my opinion , this is the most delici cut of pork and the most versatil . just the thought of sparerib , broil over charcoal or in the broiler and serv with a pungent sauc make me raven hungri . 
 peopl had to get rid of them somehow. well into the new year , they were serv in everi conceiv form to aspir priest , nun and brother who , under the then strict and unquestion rule of obedi , had no choic but to eat them . 
 enter the room where the parti is be held call , `` sandwich , ice cold drink ! `` for dessert serv ice-cream bar and cup cake , with candi clown face in the ice . 
 garnish with oliv , pimiento , tomato quarter , stuf egg or ani cold food you choose. serv with mayonnais . 
 i ll make sure he goe , `` said mitrah , pick up her handbag and follow him out . she gave him his advanc and more besid and hid him in the garag for supper had not yet been serv . 
 it was too earli to actual meet them so onc they got to their destin , a friend littl communiti on the outskirt of the citi , lepet and ellen rosenberg took up a posit behind a hedg , the one where an old man had onc jump out and traumat snap her panti . peer out in the moonlight , lepet first saw an elder gentleman relax in a reclin chair while a stocki woman serv him what appear to be bowl of stew . 
 she was a thin , lacon woman with black , cold eye who never said a word to me without trembl slight . today she serv my food with a shi and sympathet smile . 
 voraci throughout youth , it demand and get food almost constant . parent hunt most of the day for larg insect , frog , reptil , and even the young of smaller bird , which they pluck as nake as supermarket chicken befor serv . 
 class are held in cabin which duplic the interior of all aircraft use by the airline. here traine serv complet meal in practic session that are videotap for subsequ step-by-step review . 
 garnish with thin lemon slice sprinkl with chop fresh parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 dure the day , bedrol are store on a shelf locat near the ceil along one side of the tini room . at mealtim the famili will sit around a common piec of meat serv on a plank , and each diner will whittl off chunk to suit his individu tast . 
 next to get your own breakfast , sunday brunch is the easiest meal you can prepar . it 's serv late enough in the morn to give you plenti of relax prepar time . 
 if soup is too thick , add a littl more beef stock. add parsley and serve. serv 6 to 8 . 
 slice the meat and chicken . arrang on serv platter along with the garbanzo and other ingredi , and serv as the main cours . serv 4 to 6 . 
 about 1-1/4 hour befor the casserol is done , put 4 bake potato , well scrub and greas , in the oven to cook. serv this pork and sauerkraut casserol with the bake potato , some pungent pickl and a light , pleasant dessert , such as creme brule . 
 prepar boil asparagus and let it cool. chill in the refriger and serv with mayonnais . 
 murre breweri co. serv some of the tastiest beer in asia , but it has a problem : the govern of pakistan threaten to flog it custom . 
 if desir , garnish each serv with chees crouton . serv 6 to 8 . 
 simmer for 15 minut or until the kidney slice are tender. serv with boil potato . 
 salt to tast , rins the pan with 1/3 cup cognac and pour over the steaks. serv with crisp saute potatoes. with mushroom : prepar the hamburg as abov and serv heap with mushroom saute in butter and season with salt and pepper , chop chive and chop parsley . 
 refriger overnight , or for day or two. unmold and serv with shred horseradish mix with sour cream and season to tast . 
 variat : use half strawberri and half rhubarb. strawberri , bright red and drip with juic , are wonder ani way you serv them . 
 razor clam : dip shuck , clean razor clam in egg , then in crumb , and brown in butter on both sides. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with lemon wedg . 
 also a splendid dessert soup . serv 6 . 
 your main cours is what is known as a `` short order `` one it has to be finish off at the last minute. therefor it is much easier for you to serv the fruit as dessert in this instanc . 
 add the dress to the lettuc green and toss togeth until everyth is well moistened. serv on individu salad plate . 
 chill. serv with an ice cube in each soup plate. serv 10 to 12 . 
 the tabl was center with a valentin tree ( page 46 ) and each place was mark with a valentin nut-cup place card . jane serv strawberri flavor fruit gelatin , crown with whip cream , heart-shap sandwich , heart decor cake , and ice cream . 
 everi class except the kindergarten class made christma cooki , appl sauc , and bread pudding. the children hope to make cake , and even prepar and serv a meal . 
 we had some custom call and say they had stop visit us becaus they did not want to support a gun runner. '' on valentin 's day , the restaur serv it last enchilada . 
 this should take not more than about 2 minut to a side , otherwis the fish will be dri and overcooked. serv at onc on a hot platter with lemon wedg and parsley sprigs. serv 4 . 
 with curri sauc : make a cream curri sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) and fold the crabmeat into the sauc with 1/2 cup of chop toast almonds. serv on rice and accompani with a good chutney . 
 `` whi , dylan , `` sybilla said , grip his hand , `` i did n't know you felt like that . `` `` dinner , `` announc the hostess , make a mock curtsi like a theatric maid , `` is serv . `` 
 season with salt and pepper to taste. remov meatbal from the oven , pour gravi over them , and serve. serv veri hot with boil potato , cucumb salad ( page 111 ) , and lingonberri . 
 add parsley , salt , pepper and nutmeg . serv 4 to 6 . 
 when jay and i were usher into our room and found comfort bed with light-blu sheet , with a proper toilet just down the corridor , although you did have to leap over a few tree limb to get there , i was even surer that this was a tourist trap , howev world-known . the hostess put her head insid our door to invit , `` tea is be serv on the roof . 
 stir in cook wheat with ground poppi seeds. serv cold top with chop nut . 
 cover again and continu simmer until the veget are tender and the meat is done. serv as you do brais beef , bordeaux fashion ( see page 232 ) . cold brais beef , a la mode : to serv the abov dish cold , remov the meat from the broth when it is done and trim off the rag edg and excess fat . 
 season to tast with salt , fresh ground black pepper and paprika. remov them to hot plate and serv with lemon quarter , broil tomato and spaghetti dress with butter and grate chees . 
 at the raffl hotel , the manag perfect a blackout for it larg ballroom , and the orchestra provid music for danc from eight to midnight . the swim club remain a popular center , and food was still serv on it broad veranda . 
 with these interpret , the captain and the mate made their way to the town of sonho , where they were kept wait in the usual way . they were receiv by the king , to whom they present six yard of chintz , in return for which he had a chicken kill and serv up on a dirti pewter platter . 
 food-stamp and other food and nutrit program for which congress appropri $ 19.7 billion in the current year , would be cut onli slightly. cut would be accomplish most by a new attempt to elimin feder subsidi for meal serv to school children from famili whose incom are well abov the poverti level . 
 stir in heavi cream , and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. serv with rice or fri toast . 
 pleas do n't take the time to change. `` when catherin got to the tabl , than was explain to kent that edward had decid it was too late to serv the meal he had plan . 
 food. if you are have an even parti , serv onli the jack-o'-lantern sandwich , witch ' brew , and the doughnut from the centerpiece. serv buffet style . 
 chill . garnish each serv with a dollop of whip cream and a sprinkl of grate lemon rind . serv 4 to 6 . 
 cook as above. holstein : serv the scallop with a ring of anchovi and a fri egg on top of each one. with this scallop dish serv crisp fri potato and brais cabbag . 
 the whole period was a dim phase for me , lit with brief flash of insight into incident that did not person concern me . i went about the trivial busi of the day , plan meal , shop for and prepar them , serv them and saw to their clear away . 
 `` we sail from kiel at 1400 . the farewel parti had been brief , and the tradit last dinner was a mere shadow of the lucullan meal that had been serv on such occas in the past . 
 los angel time one hot afternoon littl peter was have a parti to celebr his fourth birthday . his mother serv ice-cold lemonad and cooki . 
 then add the slice ripe oliv , the caper and the chop parsley. serv this tongu in tomato sauc with crusti saute potato and pure spinach dress with plenti of butter . 
 run under the broiler flame for a few minut to melt the sugar. serv while veri hot . 
 parti stew : brown 1/2 pound of mushroom with the meat and use red wine for half of the liquid. serv with plenti of chop green parsley heap on top . 
 few passeng will be unfortun enough to see how a flight attend can evacu a planeload of passeng in 90 seconds. but air travel ' impress of an airlin hing in larg part on the cabin crew 's abil to serv food and drink with effici and aplomb . 
 the gold-min index fell 5.1 , to 324.7. brewer soar earli in the day on news that restaur will be allow to serv alcohol all afternoon . 
 remov the apricot and cook the liquid down a bit. pour it over the fruit and serv warm or cold. you may serv this with whip cream or a custard sauc , if you wish . 
 the fish is done when it flake easily. remov the cook fish , foil and all , to a platter and serv with parsley butter , lemon butter or hollandais sauc ( see sauc ) . 
 season with salt and pepper. serv garnish with croutons. serv 4 to 6 . 
 garnish with fresh strawberri slice . serv 6 to 8 . 
 sinc so much of life is spent outdoor at christmastim , turkey cook japanes style , teriyaki , over a pit or barbecu , has becom a lead favorit . `` it is veri good slice and serv in bun , `` report the wife of a hawaiian senat . 
 fourteen inch of snow , road close , no plane leav kennedi ... he had one terribl time get to a phone to call carol . he told her , `` they are show movi , and serv meal in some of the strand plane . 
 the schmoll famili and claud 's parent were sit in the dine room . coffe had been serv . 
 sparkl wine can general go through ani meal . rose wine aso fit in with most dish , but sinc they are general serv cold , go best with light meal and salad . 
 drain them well , season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and pour melt butter over them. cream : serv with a rich cream sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 in some case your parent must get ticket in advanc , and they must alway plan for transportation. sometim you can serv refresh at home , befor the show or game , especi if you have reserv seat . 
 when you know you re go to use it for dessert , put a jar in the refriger in the morn to be sure it will be nice and cold at dinner time. if your famili like it that way , serv light cream or half-and-half to pour over it . 
 pour the vinaigrett sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) over them and let them stand for 1 or 2 hour ; turn the bean frequent to be sure they are thorough bath in the sauce. serv with mayonnais . 
 tast for season and add salt if necessari . serv 6 . 
 broil about 3/4 of an hour , turn once. serv rare . 
 be sure to turn off the heat , becaus further cook will toughen the clam . just befor serv , add 4 tablespoon butter and the hot milk-cream . 
 t-bone : this is actual a porterhous cut from the small end of the loin. be not as larg around , it is a good choic if you wish to serv individu steak . 
 a 1-inch-thick hamburg would take about 6 minut on each side , for rare. serv hamburg patti with crisp fri potato , potato chip , slice beefsteak tomato or slice onion. they make ideal indoor or outdoor food and are delici serv with cold beer . 
 garnish with duxell or slice cook mushrooms. serv cut in wedg . 
 the rate are as follow : one in a room , $ 8^50 , two in a room , $ 12^50 , three in a room , $ 5^00 each . the banquet dinner will be serv at noon , thursday , which will close the confer . 
 turn often to be sure all the stalk are well bathed. let them soak for 2 hour , then drain and serv with mayonnais . 
 remov from the oven with two pot holders. serv at onc on individu plate ( a doili under each shell will keep them from slide on the plate ) . serv with lemon wedg and butter toast , cut diagon across . 
 `` we should all eat , `` fernando said . `` pilar , what pass that we are not serv ? `` 
 sinc then , price in the cafe have gone up , but the clientel doe not chang . final a sign appear in the window : `` we re not rascist , but we are no longer serv black . `` 
 and yet i had a half-ling terror that she might not be dead after all , but re-arisen in the bodi of some descend . felip serv my meal in my own apart ; and his resembl to the portrait haunt me . 
 garnish with crouton and minc parsley . serv 4 . 
 allow 1 per person and grill accord to the timet above. serv with stuf bake potato and cole slaw . 
 serbian and armenian like to add a sauc of yoghurt and mash garlic . this is spread on top of the sarma when it is serv . serv 8 to 10 . 
 continu cook for anoth 5 minut , but do not let boil . serv 4 to 6 . 
 set the cup on cooki sheet and slip under broiler for a moment to brown the cream and chees . serv 6 . 
 when the repast was conclud , a jug of hot water was place befor sir pitt , with a case-bottl contain , i believ , rum . mr horrock serv myself and my pupil with three littl glass of wine , and a bumper was pour out for my ladi . 
 they were also favorit of the italian and mexican and may be prepar in various way . a delici way of serv dri fig is as follow : put 1 pound of dri fig in a pot with 1 tablespoon strain lemon juic and water just to cover . 
 a similar hors prejudic is more local to the unit state , but still power . the harvard faculti club start serv hors steak dure the second world war , and as far as i know still serv them on certain day . 
 see suggest under chees hor d'oeuvr , page 11 , and caviar , page 11. serv ani of the veget a la grecqu suggest in the salad chapter , page 111 , v4. serv on thin slice of bread with mayonnais , or serv on individu plate . 
 continu cook until the meat and fowl are tender ; this will take about 1 more hour . one half hour befor serv add potato with their skin left on , a quarter head of cabbag and 6 carrot . 
 add rice and dumpl and heat onli long enough to warm both sufficiently. to serv , sprinkl with parsley. serv 10 to 12 as main cours . 
 twice sinc the accid , he 'd felt it expedi to accept her invit for `` a chat at my littl place . `` in her basement apart , with steampip knock and gurgl overhead , she 'd serv him tea in a cup of heirloom china . 
 on the farm and in the countri food was plenti , if limit in varieti , but in the citi the upper strata of societi never spare the local chef when entertain governor , travel dignitari , or militari hero . some of the dish serv sound bizarr today , but it would have been a strang man inde who could not have found someth to his like in the menus of the day . 
 slip dish into dg350 oven for 1 hour ; turn chicken occasionally. serv with rice . 
 when dine in a restaur where the host has no person knowledg of the wine it is safest to reli on the follow rule in consult with the wine butler. serv dri wine ( red or white ) befor an obvious sweet wine. other thing be equal , serv a white wine befor a red , becaus it appeal is more direct and it prepar the palat for the more subtl flavour of the red wine to follow . 
 season to tast with salt and pepper and sprinkl with chop parsley. serv with lemon wedg . 
 place in a cover casserol . if to be serv almost at onc , keep warm in a 350 degre oven . 
 the fare at amritsar , though suitabl humbl , was abundant. sikh sewadar helper carri ton of wheat , potato , cereal , and halwa a sweet from huge iron caldron to serv all comer on leaf plate . 
 if from casserol , let initi steam die down. then put huge glob of sour cream over all and serve. ( do not put on cream until all heat is complet , as cream will melt . ) 
 add 1/2 pound of mushroom saute in butter. serv this cream chicken over biscuit ( page 11 , v1 ) or cornbread made from a mix . 
 mix with 3 tablespoon of chop green pepper , 4 tablespoon of chop parsley , 3 tablespoon of chop chive and french dressing. serv in a larg bowl line with romain . 
 they were tire when they return to the school , with no energi left to do anyth about their person problem . when sharon had serv him his late supper , she sat down besid him and talk with him while he ate . 
 tri them with a good sauc , and i 'm sure you ll be delight surprised. one veal kidney will serv one person . 
 under the eye of a nurs sister , plump infant were be stuf chockablock with scrambl egg and tomato , follow by pineappl and custard , plus a mug of milk . two other meal of these dimens are serv everi day , with meat at one of them at least ; no wonder the babi are as podgi as littl bear . 
 this is a veri thick soup . serv with grate chees to be sprinkl on each serv . serv 8 . 
 season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper. serv these saute pepper with steak or other broil meat . 
 who was the blunder idiot who said that `` fine word butter no parsnip `` ? half the parsnip of societi are serv and render palat with no other sauc . 
 when the meat reach dg150 , remov it to a hot platter and surround it with mound of cook spinach. serv with mash potato and the follow caper sauc : caper sauc : melt 3 tablespoon of butter and blend in three tablespoon of flour . 
 put a few avocado slice in each soup plate befor fill with hot soup . serv 4 to 6 . 
 add 3 green pepper cut in strip and 1 cup of pit ripe olives. serv with garlic bread and a salad of avocado , orang and onion slice . 
 among the favorit soup are chicken corn soup with noodl ( `` plenti of stuff `` ) , rivel soup , and pretzel soup ( otherwis known as shdreis'l soup ) . the direct for this last one call for heat a bowl of milk for each person to be serv , ad a small lump of butter , and serv . 
 `` yes , miss beauchamp ? `` `` first of all , than , mr. kent would like cocktail serv in the live room again this even . `` 
 the whiski a go go , onc an import center for west coast rock and one of the few place on the strip to surviv this legal maneuv , tri sever solut , in seri . first , it continu serv liquor and put minor on bench in the balconi , but the young custom , who want to danc , went elsewher . then it stop serv liquor and rais it admiss price from two dollar to three ; the minor came back , but the attract liquor profit were lost . 
 add a littl sugar to give them a nice brown glaze. serv this pot au feu in the french manner in larg soup plate , give each person some broth , meat , veget and onion . 
 peel off the shell ( it come off easili ) , rins off the grit and with a sharp-point knife remov the black vein down the back. if you plan to serv the shrimp as appet to be eaten with the finger , leav on the tail . 
 bring to the tabl blazing. serv poach apricot ( see abov ) with ani of the suggest flavor , or serv plain over vanilla ice cream . 
 then break them into bowl , add a good dab of butter and let each person season his own to taste. or you can serv them english fashion in egg cup , the larg end up . 
 run under the broiler flame to melt the chees and brown lightly. celeriac hollandais : serv cook celeriac with hollandais sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 hastili you survey the piec get readi to extric the biggest for yourself. at that moment some smile grownup say sweet , `` rememb , you alway serv your guest first , and you give the biggest piec to them . 
 when the housewif buy it , all that remain for her to do is pop it back into the oven again for a few minut and , presto ! a steam hot turkey dinner is readi for the tabl . each tv dinner serv onli one person , of cours . 
 could she `` whip up `` someth for them ? mrs. crawshaw decid to serv her favorit dish , a sure-fir chicken recip hand down from her grandmother. the onli problem was that the recip she usual use serv eight , and tonight she would be feed eleven . 
 garnish each serv with a dollop of whip cream and 2 or 3 tini mint leav . serv 2 to 4 . 
 you will let the old shanti go to rot , the white peopl 's cloth turn to dust , and the calvari baptist church sink to the bottomless pit . you will spend your day forget you marri me and your night hunt the warm gin mike serv the ladi in the rear of the last chanc saloon . 
 brussel sprout have been malign by peopl who have onli encount them cook to a gray mush. cook them until just tender and serv them up still bright green . 
 you may thicken the sauc with a few tablespoon of tomato past , or , if you prefer , add small ball of butter and flour mix togeth ( see instruct under beurr mani , page 111 ) . just befor serv , add the chutney . 
 garnish with chop parsley and crumbl crisp bacon . serv 4 . 
 roast sheep , pigeon and fowl were pile on the dish to the height of a man , and , as in fatimid time , the tabl were adorn with fantast sculptur in sugar . singer and dancer entertain the guest , and wine was serv in plenti . 
 mix remain ingredi , ad mayonnais and season to tast . serv 8 to 10 . 
 and yet the servic on board was not what custom expect today on long flight . the qualiti of the meal and the way they were serv was quit modest , especi on the stage of the journey that began in moscow . 
 sybilla , cheer by the quick arriv of a load dinner plate , was success silenc for the next twenti minut . `` whi mr. montmor , `` jenni 's mother said as she serv him , `` you ve hurt your hand . `` 
 cook until hot through and mellow . add the dash of lemon juic just befor serv . 1 . 
 `` pray tell sir timothi that i am veri much oblig to him , and will join him direct ! `` pennymor bow , and said : `` sir timothi 's dinner will be serv immedi , miss . 
 and cold , clear borsch make a refresh summer cooler in tall glass tumbler , garnish with a sprig of dill , with a lemon slice perch on the rim . i even know one hostess who serv hot bouillon from her samovar ! 
 this can be one of the most enjoy time of the day for everyon , not just an annoy interrupt to a televis program . the mother , to whom dinnertim can come to be onli a burdensom chore of prepar , serv , and clean up afterward , should tri to relax as well and enjoy her food and famili . 
 melt 2 tablespoon of butter in a skillet and add 4 tablespoon of heavi cream. blend the chop spinach into this mixtur , season to tast with salt and pepper and serv . 
 garnish with almond , green appl or mint . serv 3 to 4 . 
 if desir , garnish with crisp butteri crouton . serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` but that 's thanksgiv . `` `` i believ dinner will be serv and there 's a staff parti for that even . 
 bake piragi may be frozen and reheat quit satisfactorili . yield : approxim 2 dozen larg roll one dish like to be serv at latvian holiday parti is galert , cold jelli pork . 
 with oliv : follow the first recip and 15 minut befor the meat is done add 1-1/2 cup of small spanish olives. garnish the shoulder with the oliv and serv the strain sauc , thicken or not , separ . 
 if desir , garnish with chop fresh parsley . serv 4 . 
 then cook the veget separately. serv mustard sauc for the meat and plenti of butter for the veget . 
 when done , remov from fire and add flavor . this sauc can be made quick just befor serv cake ; or , it can be made in advanc , remov from water and cover , then veri care reheat for serv . serv 8 or more . 
 season to tast with salt and pepper . serv 4 to 6 . 
 as a rule , boy and girl care more about win that they do about prizes. take into consider your home and your famili when you plan what to serv for refresh , where to serv , and how to serv . 
 abdul love parti . he was veri status-consci , and the dish he serv depend strict on the rank of the guest . 
 this should take about 15 minutes. discard the lettuc , season the pea with salt and pepper and serv pipe hot . 
 he was leav sometim the next day for america , after a long sojourn in africa . madam sine , wife of the french cartoonist in whose home we were shoot , serv tea at 4:00 a.m . 
 stir in 1/2 cup milk and heat until thorough warm , but do not boil . this should be serv immedi , so bread cube retain most of their crisp . 
 duck are easier to carv by cut them into halv or quarter with poultri shear ; they do not slice well. serv each person a half or quarter and with it , rice , wild rice or barley . 
 so they went off in anoth direct . differ nation disagre on how kutya should look , and how it should be serv . 
 jim gerrard cocktail ? texa liquor law prohibit the serv of mix drink except in privat club . 
 i belong to the profession club that 's onli two block away. they serv a veri good pot roast on monday . 
 pour into individu dishes. serv cold . 
 howev , it is so delic when made with veget stock that we recommend it . amount given serv 8 to 10 . 
 drain on a paper towel and place in a bake pan in a dg200 oven until the toast is ready. then serv with the toast.trim the crust from bread , allow at least two slice per person . 
 afterward , pictur were taken of the king and queen , the court , and the senior . after the coron , live music entertain was provid while refresh , consist of punch , cooki , mint , and nut , were serv to everyon . 
 garnish with crouton . serv 6 . 
 with herb and cream : just befor the mushroom are done , add 1 tablespoon of chop parsley , 1 tablespoon of chop chive ( or top of green onion ) and 1/4 cup of heavi cream. heat through , season to tast and serv on butter toast . 
 stir in the bread crumb and season to tast with salt and pepper. serv from the casserole. serv 4 to 6 . 
 sprinkl with parsley . serv 6 . 
 stir into the soup and continu stir until the egg are set . serv 6 to 8 . 
 remov the meat to a hot platter , add 1 cup of the marinad to the pan and bring it to a boil. serv this sauc with the roast , and with it also serv saute potato , butter turnip mix with saute mushroom , watercress and a good red wine . 
 arthur wise , a rand corp. expert , say princip ' turf fear are unfound ; he say they have too mani duti as it is. the checkoff : manag at lawson product inc. , des plain , ill. , will serv a cater lunch to 350 headquart employe on may 1 to express appreci of their effort throughout the year. . . . 
 so some of the big one are unexpect establish in some unlik place : in detroit , joe muer 's , a seafood place , and the london chop hous , special in continent cuisin . in milwauke , two german eateri , mader 's and karl ratzsch 's , and a hybrid , frenchi 's , serv steak and seafood . 
 but your big question there is : did the student want that of him ? would n't they have come to his hous , and no beer serv ? 
 at their best , they are ripe , age and have a sharp tang . they can be serv plain or spread on toast finger , or made into sandwich with raw onion slice . 
 remov from the oven and let cool. then serv . 
 cook bean accord to packag direct . when drain , put back into the pot in which they were cook with a good hunk of butter and sizzl briefli befor serv . serv 4 -- 6 . 
 line the broiler pan with foil and place it under the rack to catch the drippings. serv broil whole fish with parsley butter and lemon wedg . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of snip chive . serv 6 to 8 . 
 buse seem to come in onli two basic type wonder and terrible. the `` wonder `` have restroom , air condit , individu radio , and sometim airline-typ stewardess who serv you free snack and drink . 
 or sprinkl the broth generous with grate parmesan. serv fish separately. serv 4 to 6 . 
 then put them in the broiler to brown to a crisp on both sides. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with saute potato . 
 top with the grate chees , sprinkl with the bacon bit and cover tight for a minut to let the chees melt . a rich clam sauc may be serv over spaghetti , noodl or rice . 
 lutfisk is white fish that has been soak in lye sever week , then boil . it is serv with melt butter or white sauc . 
 suggest accompani : saute potato or lyonnais potato , slice tomato and raw onion dress with oil and vinegar and season with a dash of oregano . note : leftov steak is delici serv in thin slice on toast . 
 add a littl cognac , kirsch or grand marnier and let them stand to mellow. when you are readi to serv , cover the berri with a thick layer of whip cream . 
 `` a poor man 's wife , `` rebecca repli gaili , `` must make herself use , you know `` : on which her brother-in-law vow that `` she was fit to be the wife of an emperor , and that to be skil in domest duti was sure one of the most charm of woman 's qualiti . `` and sir pitt thought , with someth like mortif , of ladi jane at home , and of a certain pie which she had insist upon make , and serv to him at dinner a most abomin pie . 
 form the corn beef hash into patti and fri in butter or bacon fat until cook through and brown on both sides. serv with hash brown potato and scrambl egg . 
 a littl too plump , she and her husband were solid citizen . the english she use was dread , and she cook green bean in bacon greas and salt instead of serv them in sour cream sauc . 
 variat : broil the bone under a low flame until crispi and brown. serv with sauc diabl . 
 you will find enough varieti to arrang a larg and hearti spread for a big cocktail parti . if you are serv hor d'oeuvr to be follow by dinner , keep your dinner menu in mind when you plan the hor d'oeuvr . if you are have a rich , heavi dinner , do n't serv a rich , fill appet . 
 it tast of celeri and goe well in mix veget and as flavor in soup , stew and chowder . lovag root and leaf stalk may be cook and serv cold as a salad with oil and vinegar dress . 
 in a dalla restaur , an impati waiter roll his eye at me when i ask that butter be kept off my fish. he also insist that the broccoli had to be serv with butter becaus it was alreadi prepar that way . 
 garnish : you may add ani garnish you choos to the chicken as you arrang it in the mold : oliv , slice hard-cook egg , strip of pimiento , green pepper ring , cook veget ( string bean , carrot round , can whole mushroom ) , slice onion or radishes. serv from the mold or turn out on a bed of green and pass a bowl of well-season mayonnais . 
 again in that heaven on wheel the tabl was set . dinner was serv . 
 they should be well brown and crisp. serv with mash potato and sauerkraut . 
 the candi must be eaten and the money spent befor that day is end to honor the memori of the parent . usual , also , a nine-cours chines banquet will be serv to all the mourner when the funer is over . 
 add tomato and allow them to cook down with the veget until the mixtur is thick and well blended. serv hot , or chill , with addit oil and lemon juic . 
 dress with plenti of butter , some fresh crush garlic and a hand of chop parsley. with the roast lamb and bean serv plain watercress of crisp celeri and a chill bottl of rose wine . 
 the firm 's presid promis his cooper and i got an assign from the magazin supplement of the former new york herald tribune. the articl was featur on the front cover , with the titl , `` 2,848 way to serv ham . '' 
 this deserv further investig . he invit the two young men to his cabin where sangh serv tea . 
 slowli add a littl of the hot soup to egg mixtur , beat constantly. gradual return to soup in kettl , and serv at onc . 
 sprinkl the top with 2 tablespoon sliver blanch almonds. return to refriger until readi to serv but not for too long. prepar just befor dinner is to be serv . 
 the onli name the chef could give was `` chop suey , `` which in cantones mean `` odd and end . `` soon , they tell us , all the chines restaur serv chop suey for the american . 
 cook over low heat for 10 minutes. serv with a dollop of whip cream , if desired. 32serv 6 to 8 . 
 arrang on a serv plate and garnish with lemon wedges. serv with toast strip . 
 garnish with the custard shape and sprinkl with grate orang peel . serv 4 to 6 . 
 garnish with chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 roast a loin of pork as abov and let it cool to room temperatur without chilling. serv cut in thin slice with mustard mayonnais ( page 111 , v4 ) , french potato salad and glaze appl ring . 
 for the lenten meal onli veget fat is allow . those who are not fast will enjoy it when made with bacon or pork and serv with sour cream . 
 inde , who is there that walk london street but can point out a half-dozen of men ride by him splendid , while he is on foot ; court by fashion , bow into their carriag by tradesmen , deni themselv noth , and live on who know what ? we see jack thriftless pranc in the park or dart in his brougham , down pall mall : we eat his dinner serv on his miracul plate . 
 sometim it is wise to feed the littl one earli and let them join the famili at the tabl just for dessert . serv the first cours in the live room is one way to vari daili routin , and realli is n't ani more troubl . 
 grandfath had stop his pace now , and stood squar in front of grandmoth 's chair. `` agn , go and tell them girl to serv up the dinner now . 
 crack the claw so that meat may be easili extract , and break the bodi into halv or quarters. arrang the crack crab on a bed of ice and serv with lemon wedg and mayonnais for dip . 
 `` did you like it , pilar ? `` he ask final with his mouth full of roast young goat . we were eat at the inn from where the buss leav and the room was crowd and peopl were sing and there was difficulti serv . `` 
 releas the spring-form catch and remov the ring. place the cheesecak on a larg cake plate and serv with a knife and pie server . 
 keep it cold. when readi to serv , heap it in a glass bowl rest on a bed of ice. serv simpli with toast finger or thin slice of dark bread light butter and cut into finger . 
 `` florabel muir in new york daili news the fierc competit between london newspap is illustr by the cabl sent from the daili express to it congo correspond dure the upris : `` today 's daili mail report their correspond shot at yesterday stop whi you not shot at ? `` richard west , the white tribe of africa ( macmillan ) social note from the san diego union : `` the cake was serv by miss rebecca schwinn . 
 the thanksgiv turkey was a special treat becaus it was avail onli dure it season , and the christma orang was onc an expens rarity. today , with flourish turkey farm and quick-freez a housewif can serv turkey whenev she like , and orang are pile high in everi supermarket and appear in some form at mani tabl regular . 
 season with salt and pepper , and add parsley and a pinch of thyme . serv 6 . 
 it was almost a ritual , as i think of it now . coffe was alway serv in the best room in the hous and the good coffe cup were use . 
 fill with hot soup and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 a scandinavian smorgasbord offer one of the easiest way to entertain deliciously. guest serv themselv , as at ani buffet arrang . 
 it will keep satisfactorili for a month or more refriger , but gain noth with age . it can be serv immedi after cook , or reheat in the same manner as the forego pud . 
 some reindeer were over a foot long . even doughnut , seldom if ever serv at ani other time of year , were cut in elabor design . 
 this will take 35 to 40 minutes. serv plain roast squab or broil squab cold for an eleg picnic . 
 this is a thick soup , but add more hot water dure cook , if necessary. tast for season , add parsley and serve. serv 4 . 
 the cellar door offer the best in smoke cookeri amid a red plush victorian-western atmosphere. if bar-b-qu is your bag , you wo n't find better than they serv at the cellar door . 
 general loewenhielm , who was to domin the convers of the dinner tabl , relat how the dean 's collect of sermon was a favorit book of the queen 's . but as a new dish was serv he was silenc . 
 it wilt if it stand too long. just befor readi to serv , break the green into bite-s piec and put them in a salad bowl . 
 this make 8 to 10 slice of eleg dessert. a cold winter even is just the time to serv a rich homemad gingerbread , steam hot and heap with whip cream ! 
 pour over the steak . suggest accompani : this is especi good serv with butter spaetzl ( page 275 ) . 
 remov bay leaf and bones. cut the meat into small piec and serv in the soup. serv 6 to 8 . 
 great favorit are : dutch edam is the round red chees from holland. to serv : cut a slice from the top and dig the chees out with a chees knife. all chees eaten plain should be serv at room temperatur . 
 i thought it was stupid for us to have drawer and a closet in the room but not be allow ani cloth . after dress we were march to the cafeteria , where we were serv powder milk and egg for breakfast . 
 stir in the cream and season with salt and pepper . serv 2 to 4 . 
 from it extend narrow strip of carrot , like ray of the sun. `` sunlight orang juic to drink , `` remark mother . for dessert jim serv heaven star-shap cooki , which he had bake , and veri earth ice cream . 
 add crouton last and mix lightly. serv immedi . 
 refrigerate. break into bite-s piec to serv . 
 make 12 cups. serv this meal in buffet fashion , the stew in a big bowl or a tureen , togeth with the pilot biscuit on their plate and the soup plate . 
 chill sever hour or overnight in refriger . serv 6 . 
 with corn pork or tongu : cook the corn beef with corn pork or corn tongue. cook the veget separ and serv as abov . 
 fill the center with ani seafood salad ( page 111 ) , use 1/3 to 1/2 cup per artichoke. press back into shape and serv with addit mayonnais . 
 fri to deep brown on each side. serv hot with chosen garnish . 
 remov chicken from oven to the heat serv platter. garnish with crisp bacon strip , and serv with heat cream sauc . 
 the maccabean latk would have been quit differ from those made from the follow recip becaus potato were not introduc to palestin until after the discoveri of america . latk are serv with a varieti of garnish applesauc , dried-apricot pure , or powder sugar , with cream chees or sour cream . 
 in it short life , sunris took a fast track , spurn tradit residenti mortgag lend in favor of riski commerci real estat loans. the thrift gather deposit primarili from florida retire , who were drawn to it high interest rate and person servic , which includ serv bagel and coffe . 
 `` they re on an ego trip. what realli bother me ( dure a visit ) was that they had a brigadi general serv me a cup of coffe , '' complain georg kachajian , a new jersey businessman whose effort to sell to eastern bloc countri has been tangl in red tape for near three year . 
 add potato and simmer for 30 minut more , or until tender. cut the meat in small piec and serv in the soup. serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` she join the other in put away the thing that were in the pile . `` refresh are serv in the witch ' den , `` she call as she led the group into the dine room . 
 with onion : add a grate onion to the butter befor you put it on the spinach. serv garnish with slice hard-cook egg and 1 teaspoon of dri tarragon , or 1 tablespoon of fresh tarragon. dress the spinach with this herb butter , salt and fresh ground black pepper , and serv it with lemon quarters. chop : chop the spinach coars befor season and serv cream 1 : chop the spinach coars . 
 `` kind o ' give up on the mess hous , too . time was that she insist that we have a lot o ' salad on littl plate , and de-sert serv in side dish , an ' clean tablecloth and napkin evri meal . 
 eat the artichok is fair complic . becaus it demand the eater 's undivid attent , it is usual serv as a separ cours either as a first cours or immedi follow the meat . if serv with the meat , it should be serv on a separ plate , larg enough to hold all the discard leav . 
 `` when the pest had lunch laid out on the desk , the kid were awestruck . there were ten pizza , one of each type that antonio 's serv . 
 it was a set for high tea , but no one would notic if a man put his feet up on a tabl . it was a like place for a crap game , but no one would be surpris if a uniform butler serv champagn and plover 's egg . 
 tast for seasoning. serv with a slice of fri bread in each soup plate , and sprinkl with grate cheese. serv 4 to 6 . 
 remov the meat to a hot platter and pour the juic over it. serv with tini new potato and tini french pea cook with onion and mix with bit of smoke ham and plenti of butter . 
 heat , but do not boil . serv 6 . 
 add the pure mixtur and heat . serv 4 to 6 . 
 remov the lamb to a hot platter and pour the juic over it. serv with steam rice , brais cabbag ( use the chines cabbag for this , if you can get it ) and tini white onion glaze . 
 garnish each portion with chop parsley or a thin slice of lemon . serv 6 . 
 his culinari skill are limit , howev . for a time , he was fond of serv tv dinner , until the protest grew too loud and he switch to spaghetti , which he serv without sauc or even butter . 
 rebottl , cover and stand in a cool place for a week. drain , chill and serv . 
 reduc the heat to dg400 for anoth 20 minut , and then turn it down to dg350 for a final 20 minut , or until the crust is nice brown and the appl cook through . appl pie is best serv warm . serv it with cream , whip cream or with a sharp chees . 
 `` i had to drink half of the glass . `` she also serv him a plate of soup . 
 spread reserv chocol mixtur over the top. chill until readi to serv . 
 if you have the parti outdoor , cook hot dog on a grill. serv food from a wagon mark `` chuck wagon . '' 
 by now he would have told ramon or his mother to knock it off . mrs. hunter serv appl pie and milk for dessert . 
 sprinkl light with salt and bake as for roast chicken , bast occasion with melt butter or melt butter and white wine mixed. serv with giblet sauc ( see page 111 ) . 
 onc , when just from colleg , and when horrock the butler brought him a letter without place it previous on a tray , he gave that domest a look , and administ to him a speech so cut , that horrock ever after trembl befor him : the whole household bow to him : ladi crawley 's curl-pap came off earlier when he was at home : sir pitt 's muddi gaiter disappear ; and if that incorrig old man still adher to other old habit , he never fuddl himself with rum-and-wat in his son 's presenc , and onli talk to his servant in a veri reserv and polit manner ; and those person remark that sir pitt never swore at ladi crawley while his son was in the room . it was he who taught the butler to say , `` my ladi is serv , `` and who insist on hand her ladyship in to dinner . 
 `` the administr back down and apolog . at four o'clock sunday afternoon , tea with rum was serv . 
 and now , mr. van weyden , `` he said to me when he had been reliev from the wheel , `` we must make these newcom welcome. serv out plenti of whiskey to the hunter and see that a few bottl slip for'ard . 
 there are cloud and sunshin ( freedom , power ) . a man is be serv by a stewardess . 
 steam as above. strain the broth and serv it with the clam . 
 kasha is buckwheat groat , a popular dish in eastern mediterranean countries. this recip will serv 4 person . 
 the administr had sound specif interest about make some chang in the hospit . sam drew chart ; he advanc idea for chang the serv of meal , the collect and handl of laundri . 
 use a pancak turner , fold the hash over and roll it out on a hot platter , crusti side up. serv with poach or fri egg . 
 sprinkl with parsley , chive or paprika . serv 4 to 6 . 
 in sweden , food play a big part at funer . invit are sent out and a dinner is usual serv at a hotel . after the gravesid servic , relat and friend follow the sorrow famili home and coffe and elabor refresh are serv . 
 they should be rare in the center. spear each one with a toothpick and serv pipe hot with a good mustard . 
 drain thorough , season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and dress with melt butter. with hollandais : serv with hollandais sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . cream : serv with rich cream sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 mani a gustatori delight await the soup fancier in the recip of this section . this may be further enhanc by serv the ethnic soup with it common ethnic accompani . 
 `` the housekeep came in carri a tray that held a silver coffe servic and four cup and saucer . procan thank her and then nod at janet whistler who pour and serv the coffe . 
 with crumb : for each serv , toss 1 tablespoon of dri bread crumb in a saucepan with 1 tablespoon of butter . pour the brown butter crumb over the tip of the asparagus just befor serv . 
 brush with oil or butter and grill over charcoal or in the broiler for sever minutes. season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and serv with steak or hamburg . 
 gradual add water and cook on top of the rang , stir constant , until thicken and smooth. serv in a gravi boat. serv 4 . 
 stir well to blend with the pan juic and heat through , but do not let it boil or it will curdle. pour this sauc over the chop and serv with mash potato and fri appl ring . 
 chill the soup for 24 hour . befor serv add 1/3 cup of heavi cream or sour cream for each cup of soup . serv ici cold in chill cup and top with chop chive . 
 run under the broiler flame for a few minut until brown and bubbly. add cook shrimp to the regular curri sauc on page 111 , v4 and serv with rice and chutney . 
 dure `` exam hell , '' the year lead up to the final test , komaba 's senior drop out of sport and other extracurricular activities. their mother relentless pressur them to studi harder , often serv them dinner at home at their desk . 
 `` tension , `` georg declar . `` you re not use to this kind of fli no pressur cabin , no reclin seat , no pretti stewardess serv martini . 
 place them in a cover dish or wrap them in foil and keep them in the oven set on `` warm. `` place the fri hamburg on the roll when it is time to serv refresh . 
 press a button and we take off . press anoth button and dinner is serv . 
 garnish with thin lemon slice . serv 4 to 6 . 
 in her scrip , she had some bread left from yesterday 's lunch . breakfast was clear not go to be serv on the train . 
 without a word he place a cup and saucer and pour tea . in a few minut he serv fresh egg , bacon , and soft roll . 
 buy these in a packag . heat well befor serv in a 425 degre oven for about 8 -- 10 minut . 
 third : add 1 cup chicken broth ( page 11 ) , stir it into the pan , cover , and simmer for 1/2 hour . serv the chicken cover with it gravi on a heat serv platter . serv with boil rice ( page 111 ) . 
 a bottl of wine produc about six larg glass if fill three-quart full , as they should be . all tabl wine are suitabl for dinner parti , although some attent to the order of serv and the accompani food is desir . 
 this will take about 35 minutes. serv at onc or it will fall . 
 tear well in olivia 's eyes. she had worri all day about what she would serv for christma dinner . 
 place a pat of butter in each soup plate befor fill with soup , and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 6 to 8 . 
 to make fruit sauc : heat raspberri or strawberri juic and thicken with 1 tablespoon cornstarch per cup juic . chill befor serv . serv 6 . 
 top each with a twist of lemon peel . serv 8 . 
 altern stuf : use the stuf given under the recip for stuf veal shoulder ( see abov ) . cold breast of veal : stuf breast of veal chill and serv cold is a great treat on a hot summer day . 
 when done , scoop out the flesh , add 4 to 6 tablespoon of melt butter , salt and fresh ground black pepper to tast and beat until smooth. serv top with crumbl bacon bit . 
 make about 1 quart. variat : some peopl serv this soup hot , with a boil potato in each soup plate . 
 the languag he spoke was greek , but with a cretan accent , veri differ from cypriot . the barman who serv him show a flicker of surpris . 
 garnish with crouton and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 when thicken , add 2 tablespoon heavi cream. pour over kaldormar and serv . 
 sashimi , raw fish , is veri good onc you are use to the tast . anoth good-luck food serv at new year 's is kuromam , black bean and chestnut boil in a sweet sauc . 
 they are except tender and delic in flavor but scarc and expensive. one pound of either varieti will serv 2 person with big appetit and 3 with averag capac . 
 becaus of the blockad , food was scarc . onli two meal a day were serv aboard the patrick henri . 
 cover and simmer over low heat for about 1 hour . serv 4 to 6 . 
 sometim on day when no one was stay and there was n't much to do i 'd go there to fish me and sarah mcrorti , we 'd go together. do you rememb her the girl who use to help serv at the tabl ? 
 add 1 cup of pit ripe oliv dure the last half hour of cooking. serv with polenta ( page 111 , v2 ) . 
 season with salt and pepper. serv veri hot. garnish each serv with a lemon slice and a sprinkl of parsley . serv 6 . 
 it was late at night , and find all the restaur close they final stumbl on a chines restaur where onli chines ate . as they demand to be fed , the chines chef took whatev was left over , put it all togeth with a sauc , and serv it . 
 reheat to boil point , add rice and cook until tender. tast for season and serv pipe hot . 
 dust these with flour and cook in butter until brown on both sides. serv plain or with a sprinkl of chop parsley . 
 then guest tast and vote . one steak was pan-broil ; one was broil under a gas flame ; one was broil with electr ; and one was saute and serv up with a sauc . 
 file tend to thicken the stew , as doe okra . it must , in ani case , be ad at the veri end , just befor serv . 
 fresh eel are prepar in a similar way in latvia . serv 6-8 . 
 it might be said that the potato is the `` basic black dress `` of the veget famili . it can be serv plain or dress up for eleg . 
 the u.s. depart of agricultur introduc a polici that all school district must sign paper that they will give free or reduc price lunch to children in need . rim barber told me : `` mani school sign , but serv no lunch . 
 i veri glad cook dinner sinc she came home an hour later than i. i pride myself for an artist flair for think up unusu menus and cook them rather rapid . i am not sure now whether the limit of one dollar , self-impos as it was , was for the entir dinner or per head , especi sinc i often serv some wine with it . 
 the rich butteri qualiti add to their tastiness. serv them on crisp piec of toast with the cream and butter pour over the top . 
 garnish with chop fresh parsley or a slice of lemon . serv 6 . 
 your father had influenc , got a crime hush up a long time befor , not for himself , but for one of his friends. one of his friend shot a girl becaus she would n't serv him anoth drink , shot and miss . 
 remov the roll to a hot platter , pour the sauc from the pan over them and top with chop parsley. serv this with macaroni dress with butter , chees and chop saute mushroom ; and a salad of romain and crumbl hard-cook egg , with a lemon juic and oliv oil dress . 
 garnish with slice fresh mushroom , cook asparagus tip , or a sprinkl of chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 with beer : omit the appl and substitut beer for the wine in the casserole. serv this casserol with horseradish mix with appl sauc . 
 `` oh , but do send mrs. hopkin to me at onc ! `` she said , ad to georgina , as anson left the room , `` i have the most lower presenti that ice and wafer-biscuit are not at all the thing to be serv tonight , as the weather has turn so cool and damp . `` georgina , forese a monologu on the defici of the dinner and the refresh to be serv later that would endur until mrs. hopkin made her appear , hurri interpos , `` cousin bella ! 
 for the first six month you wonder how the devil you got here , and for the second six month you wonder how the devil the rest of ' em got here ! `` the newlyw were live on a veri tight budget , and the young bride had figur out everi possibl differ way to serv a hamburg . 
 some group have import from other countri use of alcohol that can be class as dietari , as explain earlier . for these peopl the holiday feast would not live up to expect if wine were n't serv . 
 keep warm. when they are complet stack , dress with hot chocol sauc and serv in wedg with whip cream , sweeten to tast and spike with cognac . 
 garnish with chop pistachio nuts. serv with whip cream . 
 bake in a moder oven ( dg350 ) for 30 minutes. serv warm top with vanilla sauc . 
 add the hot rice crust to boil broth . garnish each serv with 2 shrimp , a few mushroom slice and a sprinkl of chop scallion . serv at once. serv 6 . 
 garnish with chop fresh parsley . serv 6 . 
 heat over a veri low flame for 1 hour. serv on hot pasta and sprinkl with plenti of grate parmesan or romano chees . 
 prepar cube of fresh pineappl as you do melon ball . within the memori of old timer ( includ me ) , bread-mak was routin in everi household , and no proper wife thought of serv bakery-mad product . 
 mani peopl insist that flank steak must be cook by a long slow process . this well-known dish call for broil flank steak and is delici if proper serv . 
 chill . help hint : leav the avocado pit in the guacamol until serv time to prevent the mixtur from turn dark . 
 stir in 1/4 cup soup , then return mixtur to balanc of soup. serv with grate parmesan chees to sprinkl on top. serv 4 to 6 . 
 remov from the oven and sprinkl with cinnamon. serv cold with heavi cream or whip cream . 
 season to tast with salt and pepper. serv these broil kidney slice with a good english mustard , some crisp watercress and french-fri potato . 
 when they are brown , turn , butter the other side of each slice and return to the broiler to finish cooking. serv as you would saute eggplant . 
 as they sat and swelter , the motorist could look up and see the early-ris moon three quarter full in the sky. in common with uncount thousand of other housew in the vast metropolitan area maggi mcguir was make ice tea to serv with the dinner she had prepar . 
 reserv pour in. jean-michel lorain , whose la cote saint jacqu in nearbi joigni got elev last year , say he sudden serv between 25 % and 30 % more `` langoustin roti a la vinaigrett '' and other specialti , and is swamp with offer to market his jam , tabl linen and other sidelin . 
 the cockaleeki recip come from scotland and is also popular in wale , where the leek is held in such high nation esteem that it has becom the countri 's floral emblem . no less rever is the swedish pea soup , arter med flask , a nation dish serv in most swedish home everi thursday for hundr of year . 
 drain well. serv with the meat sauc pour over , the parsley sprinkl on and plenti of grate parmesan in a separ dish to sprinkl on top. serv 6 . 
 select ripe , juici pear , peel them and cut into veri thin slices. sugar light and serv with plenti of heavi cream . 
 reduc heat , cover and simmer until meat and veget are tender about 30 minutes. to serv , top with spoon of sour cream and sprinkl with dill. serv 8 . 
 fifth : garnish with 3 hard-boil egg , cut into quarter , arrang them between the sausages. sprinkl with paprika and serv hot in the bake dish with your favorit mustard . 
 drop into boil salt water or soup stock and poach. serv with hot consomm . 
 for 4 person , buy 1 to 1-1/2 pounds. an eleg way to serv fresh cherri is to heap them whole , with stem intact , in individu glass dishes. serv small bowl of ice water with the cherri so each person can dip the fruit as he eat it . 
 simmer for anoth 2 or 3 minut . serv 4 to 6 . 
 cool to room temperatur , then chill in the refrigerator. serv with sweet or sour cream . 
 bowl of hot soup are alway welcome. serv hot appl pie for dessert . 
 rins the pan with 1/3 cup of dri vermouth or white wine and pour over the hamburg . the tradit hamburg is a 4-ounc cake broil or pan-broil to the requir state of done and serv on a heat , toast , butter bun . 
 let it cool and then place it in the refriger to jelly. when you are readi to serv , unmold the jelli meat onto a platter and garnish it with pickl , slice hard-cook egg , oliv and parsley . 
 cool and then chill in the refrigerator. when readi to serv , gentl push asid the center leav and remov the undevelop leav at the heart . 
 for bast : apricot brandi , about 3/4 cup . for serv : green grape if avail , red otherwis . 
 add parsley , butter and season and simmer for anoth 10 minut . serv 6 . 
 come see them . we will be serv the even lunch on them dure our april bake sale and fun night . 
 if you like it softer , cook it to the stage of done you prefer. serv in ani of the way suggest for noodl . 
 add the vinegar and garnish with crouton or chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 everi day , around 175 of them seek companionship at henri street 's senior-citizen center , in the basement of a nearbi hous project. at midday , the center serv a 60-cent hot lunch . 
 season with salt and pepper and top with crouton . serv 8 to 10 . 
 there were solo sung and music play and poem read which had been written just for us and telegram from love one in sweden and from friend all over america were read aloud . after the program was finish , there was a receiv line and then refresh were serv . 
 old sherri and madeira are more easili obtain than a twenty- or thirty-year-old sautern or barsac . like all rule connect with wine-drink , the rule govern the order of serv wine are noth more than common sens and are variabl accord to person tast . 
 with 9,800 mcdonald 's -- 7,500 of them in the u.s. -- alreadi dispens burger in 46 countri , his discipl continu to open new restaur at a rate of one everi 17 hour ; less than 0.5 % of the new unit fail. mcdonald 's dispens near one out of everi three hamburg serv in u.s. restaur and more than one-fourth of the french fri . 
 she was place at the grand exclus tabl with his royal high the exalt personag befor mention , and the rest of the great guest . she was serv on gold plate . 
 return to the broiler to brown the crumbs. serv with sauc diabl or with english mustard and crisp bacon strip . 
 brush with the jelli until thorough covered. chill and serv with a plain mayonnais to which you have ad chop fresh dill to tast ; or serv with green mayonnais ( see page 111 , v4 ) . 
 so much of the cook i learn from my own mother , known to mani of you as mama. much of it is from my own kitchen food i have toy with , improv the flavor and make them more excit to serv . 
 slip under the broiler for a moment to brown the cream light . serv 6 . 
 fig are quit sweet. serv with heavi cream . 
 `` no , i wo n't forget , je ne demand pas mieux . `` tea was serv under the big lime-tre in front of the hous . 
 now and then amanda was awar of mrs. wickensdorf 's eye on her in a specul way ; now and then she saw them fix on allan in a puzzl way , as though somewher she had made a miscalcul . it was a relief to them all when mrs. oliv appear in the doorway to say , in a soft and almost frighten voic , `` luncheon is serv . `` 
 most peopl go to a parti , but the club took the parti to the guest this time . they serv delici refresh , and had gift for all . 
 stir the mixtur into the soup and remov from heat. serv hot or cold , sprinkl with chop chervil. serv 6 . 
 all vital element for grow mind and bodi ... help your child grow bigger and stronger. serv wonder bread . 
 garnish with snip dill . serv 4 . 
 allow 1 quart of shuck clam for 4 persons. if you are steam clam , 1 quart of clam in the shell will serv onli one true clam lover , but will be enough for two with less enthusiasm . 
 if you like your noodl softer , cook for 10 minutes. drain thorough and serv dress with plenti of butter , salt and fresh ground black pepper. you can also use ani of the sauc list for spaghetti ( page 332-337 ) or serv ani of the follow way : chees noodl : drain the noodl thorough and return them to the pan . 
 brush the split kidney with melt butter or oliv oil and broil veri quick under a hot flame until brown on the outsid but still rare in the center. season to tast with salt and pepper and serv with crisp bacon slice . 
 drain well , season to tast with salt and fresh ground black pepper and pour melt butter over. cream : serv the cook celeri cover with a rich cream sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . hollandais : serv cook celeri with a hollandais sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 eat togeth can combin all the `` someth `` basic to success get-togeth . the plan , prepar , and serv of food , as well as the eat of it , provid someth to do , to watch , to talk about , to laugh over , and to help with . 
 if desir , float 1 tablespoon rouill in the middl of each soup plate . serv 6 to 8 . 
 lobster salad see basic seafood salad , page 111 , v4 . this is a famous , classic seafood dish serv in pari and in outstand french restaur in new york . 
 add honey or sugar , cinnamon , nutmeg , clove , allspic , salt and lemon juic . just befor serv , stir in the cream and milk and heat . 
 this will onli take a few minutes. serv with rice and saute or broil eggplant . 
 in some area , especi in charleston , south carolina , pea are combin with rice to make hop john , a dish quit similar to jamaican and puerto rican stapl . hot pepper sauc is serv with it , and often boil okra and bake yam . 
 bay scallop will be done in a minut or two ; sea scallop take a littl longer. season to tast at the last and serv with a dust of chop parsley and a garnish of lemon wedg . 
 repeat this everi 10 minut dure the next 1/2 hour of cook , or until the duck skin has a fine glaze. serv this curri glaze duck with rice and chutney and thin slice banana dress with a sharp french oil-and-vinegar dress . 
 ham from denmark , butter from new zealand , spice from the island of the caribbean and from asia , tea from ceylon , coffe from brazil , and oliv from the middl east are commonplace. process food , readi to heat and serv , repres million of unseen worker who have rais , harvest , prepar , and packag product hitherto unknown in the home or elsewher . 
 whether you use a tablecloth or mat depend on what you have avail . if there is a first cours in the meal you re serv , it may be readi at each place when the particip appear at the tabl . 
 he take in onli nine guest at a time , special in prussian aristocrat . meal are formal , serv by waiter in white glove . 
 later that year , his open hot roast-beef sandwich creat a scandal with it frank . 1783 : to celebr his sixty-fifth birthday , he invent the hamburg and tour the great capit of the world person , make burger at concert hall befor larg and appreci audienc . in germani , goeth suggest serv them on bun an idea that delight the earl , and of the author of faust he say , `` this goeth , he is some fellow . `` 
 orang : add 4 cup orang juic , 1/4 cup sugar , and a dash of salt to milk , plus 1 cup of crush ice . serv 6 . 
 you may find these other soupmak utensil among your regular cook equip : the queen virtu of a well-mad soup are entitl to a commensur high standard of service. a first command in this respect is : serv a hot soup pipe hot . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of popcorn or a dollop of whip cream . serv 4 to 6 . 
 bake a ham prefer a fine country-cur and age ham in ani of the way suggest on page 111-111 , v3. make thin cornbread ( see quick bread , page 11 ) and serv the ham in thin slice on well-butt piec of the bread . 
 it can be a side dish with hamburg , or it can be offer as the main cours at a summer buffet dinner . no matter when it is serv , or what the ingredi , a salad should alway have a slight tart tast and alway be zest . 
 sprinkl with snip chive . serv 4 to 6 . 
 it must have caus their chief to decid on reveng ... `` the door open and sangh came in balanc his tray as rapid roll in the long swell . he swift serv mr. bayn with toast biscuit , jam , a cup of tea ; tea for sir thoma and mereweth . 
 garnish with garlic crouton or dollop of salt whip cream . serv 4 to 6 . 
 if the potato seem too stiff , add a littl extra cream. reheat over hot water and serv with an extra lump of butter on top . 
 when the pictur are complet , they form a veri interest mural and becom a topic of convers for all . the type of food and where it will be serv will depend upon the number of guest , how long they will stay , and how larg the host home is . 
 empanadita freez veri satisfactorily. reheat to serv . 
 i find the best are place on top , and underneath they may be green or moldy. one quart will serv 4 person . 
 sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 she put on the white outfit in which she had arriv with a shirt of mine underneath and took the head of the tabl . i would not even have her hang around in the provinci manner and serv the men while they ate . 
 this type of souffl is far lighter and more delic than cream base souffl , and it fall easili . it must be serv quick . 
 put the hot dunk sauc over an alcohol flame or electr plate. serv hot stuf biscuit fold in a napkin . 
 like the peach , it must be realli ripe to be sweet and juicy. eat it plain , or peel it and serv it with cream or in combin with other fruit . 
 with mapl sugar : use mapl sugar , or omit sugar and bast with mapl syrup. with sherri : bast the appl with a littl dri sherri wine dure the bake and serv with a custard sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) flavor with sherri wine . 
 smoke eel : cut thin fillet from this meati fish and arrang on a platter or on toast fingers. serv with lemon slice or wedg . 
 sprinkl with chop fresh parsley , if desir . serv 4 to 6 . 
 she was robe in white , they said , and around her head there shone a circl of fire or light . so it had onc happen with their former nordic goddess freya , who onc visit on the longest night of the year and serv the swede mead from a golden horn , in promis of a bounti harvest . 
 with loin chop : substitut 4 thick loin pork chop for the steak. serv with bake sweet potato . 
 or make your own . this recip serv 4 person . 
 add salt and pepper. serv hot , sprinkl with grate romano cheese. serv 4 to 6 . 
 polish-american mix cream with the poppi seed befor combin with honey . serv 8 or more . 
 here are some of the green you might like to tri for varieti , textur , and flavor : iceberg , boston , or bibb ( limeston ) lettuc , romain , chickori , escarol , endiv belgian or domest spinach , water cress , or dandelion greens. if you live where there is a scandinavian food shop , you can have a grand time look over the great varieti of chees to be had and decid which you will serv . 
 by noon they were as hungri as wolv . meat or fish was serv at noonday dinner , but tea was a tasteless drink the boy call `` beer . `` 
 add slice cook potato that have marin in oil and vinegar , slice tomato , quarter hard-cook egg and slice of cold boil beef. serv with a pitcher of french dress , a bowl of mayonnais , slice pickl and horseradish on the side . 
 in front of each guest was a plate of small sandwich , each wrap in wax paper . mrs. clark also serv carrot strip , milk , gelatin dessert , and cooki cut in the shape of toy . 
 veri earli on the morn of decemb 25 , general hugh mercer went to the ferri hous and discuss plan with those offic who were alreadi there . this was probabl immedi after sunris , or about seven o'clock in current eastern standard time , and mckonkey was alreadi serv hot rum and milk . 
 then return the lobster to the kettl to cook in the sauc , cover tight and simmer for 20 minutes. serv over rice . 
 this salad tast so good and was so differ that i ask for the recip , which was sent to me after i had return home . the beauti of this salad is that it can be serv either cold or hot , make it just perfect for either a warm or a cool june day . to serv hot increas sour cream to 1/2 cup , and bake at dg350 for 20 minut . 
 from the garden come the sound of water trickl over a grace stone fountain and into a goldfish pool. mrs. furton , billow about in a hand-embroid turquois muumuu , serv browni and coffe , and ask a visitor to guess what she paid for the big basket of chrysanthemum and gladiola on her coffe tabl : $ 6 . 
 make a rich custard sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) and flavor it with cognac or grand marnier. serv over blueberri . 
 the food at supper was plenti and good . with it was serv a delici light beer instead of the horribl `` swipe `` the boy had endur at stonyhurst . 
 return the meat cube to the pan to reheat. serv with rice , noodl or mash potato . 
 the flavor improv if the casserol is made sever day ahead of time . boil potato which accompani it can be peel sometim the day it is to be serv and put in water , then cook just befor serv . 
 sweeten with 2 tablespoon sugar and flavor with 2 teaspoon vanilla extract. when readi to serv , spread the whip cream on top of the pie . 
 melt butter or beef drip in a skillet and cook the beef slice until the crumb are crusti and brown and the meat is hot through. serv with sauc diabl ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 let cool complet . befor serv top with color ( option ) whip cream . 
 he almost hurri to greet them. `` madam has ask that i serv an aperitif in the salon to signor spezzi and madam tibbett , `` he said . 
 remov cover and continu simmer until the soup is thick , stir often. serv with hot , fluffi boil rice to spoon into the gumbo. serv 6 . 
 garnish with chop dill or parsley . serv 4 . 
 float a littl cream atop each serv and sprinkl with a few grate of nutmeg . serv 6 . 
 fold the napkin over the corn to hold in the heat. serv with individu dish of salt , pepper grinder and plenti of sweet butter . 
 return the liver to the sauc and reheat it for a minute. serv with rice and a casserol of tomato and eggplant bake in the oven . 
 at their embassi parti there was never an afghan baccha in sight . food and drink were serv by the russian wive instead . 
 they march around the corner to the dim , cool public room . the old white-hair portugues serv the london gin and lemon . 
 place all ingredi in saucepan and simmer 15 minutes. remov cinnamon and serv hot or cold . 
 cover the pan and bake in a dg350 oven for 2 or 3 hour or until the meat is tender and the flavor are well blend and mellowed. serv with plain boil potato or butter noodl . 
 just then she kick the screen door open and came out with a tray with two drink in tall glass of plastic silver with foliag on top . beer was never serv with a sprig of mint to the best of my knowledg . 
 i had work in one hospit befor come here. we have about seventi thousand meal to serv a month , and we cater as well for all sort of meet , parti and benefit held here at the hospit . '' 
 cook them accord to direct abov , place them on hot plate and season to tast with salt , pepper and butter. serv with bearnais sauc , sauc diabl or bordelais sauc . 
 add the oliv and heat them through. serv this sauc with the duck , and accompani it with small new potato cook in their jacket and tini green pea . 
 split roll and toast them on the grill. butter them and serv a frankfurt in each. serv 8 ( if you re also have hamburg ) . 
 most of these student sleep in the dormitori which is a part of the same building. furthermor , plan are current be develop to serv the three meal per day in this build , start in the fall of 1969 . 
 her life was grind , grind , grind and sift , sift , sift. '' socrat alexand , cater director at the plaza hotel in new york , recent serv luncheon to the nation layman 's bibl committe use `` good book cookbook '' cuisin . 
 arrang the cook scallop on a hot platter and garnish with lemon quarter and chop parsley. serv with potato hash in cream , butter turnip and a green salad . 
 beat for 2 minut with rotari beater. serv hot , top with a sprinkl of chop parsley and load of oyster crackers. serv 2 to 4 . 
 stir in the cream and chill . serv 4 to 6 . 
 if you wish you can give this dish a more festiv touch by ad a packag of cook frozen green pea just befor you dish up the stew and top it with a liber sprinkl of italian parsley. with veal saut serv spaetzl . 
 `` light my fire `` was come through the loudspeak around the pool at the upper deck , one of montego bay 's most luxuri resort hotel . the man from michigan , buoy by the free rum punch that had been serv between 5:00 and 7:00 , was well into his monologu . 
 everyth reek of gasolin . all day long the men breath gasolin ; the air that the ventil circul below deck was charg with gasolin ; at mid-day the men were serv gasoline-flavour sandwich and the water they drank tast of gasolin . 
 then cook over low heat for about 30 minutes. serv with yoghurt or sour cream as a topping.serv 6 to 8 . 
 pour into a greas loaf pan and bake in a 350 degre oven for 1 hour. slice to serve. serv four . 
 brush the top crust with beaten egg yolk and bake accord to direct for appl pie , page 111. serv hot or cold . 
 for all those million , you might expect gondolas. but general mill has lavish it time and money on creat an ambianc and cuisin that are sort of italian -- the restaur do serv spaghetti -- but not so italian as to put off the american mass market . 
 it would make just as much sens to combin turnip and asparagus. serv them separ . 
 cook gentl for 15 minutes. serv over hot spaghetti , noodl or ani pasta and pass grate parmesan chees or romano cheese. 1. do not strain the sauc but serv it with the bit of meat and veget in it . 
 dure the last hour , bast with apricot brandi . fifteen minut befor serv , add grape and bast them along with the goos . serv with white rice cook by favorit recipe. serv 8 . 
 place the bread on a cooki sheet and put into a 375 degre oven for 10 minutes. serv with plenti of butter avail . 
 when custard has cool to room temperatur , place it in the refriger to chill befor eat . when serv , spoon right out of casserol , prefer into individu bowl . 
 simmer veri gentl for a few minut until all the ingredi are well blended. add a dash of lemon juic and serv . 
 garnish with raw onion ring or paper thin slice of bermuda or red italian onion , slice hard-cook egg and capers. serv mayonnais separ . 
 a popular cordial call lovag was made from the herb in combin with other herb . it was serv at inn for it benefici effect and sooth qualiti dure intestin upset . 
 dribbl a tablespoon of honey over each half. refriger until readi to serve. although one ordinarili serv fruit first at breakfast , it often provid dessert at lunch and sinc this meal is a combin of the two one may choos when to serv it . 
 or put a meat thermomet in the thickest part of the roast ( do not let it touch a bone ) and roast until the thermomet regist dg165. serv this special dish with glaze onion and bake potato dress with sour cream , crumbl bacon and chop parsley . 
 `` you can turn the other way , `` i suggested. you ought to see what they serv in these place . 
 no , his ear twitch , but onli when i offer him a french-fri potato doe he rise to his stumpi leg . the fourteen-year-old girl who has been serv me stand in the doorway of the restaur to watch anoth helicopt bring down the dead and wound from the slope of the syrian mountain to the hospit here in safe . 
 this is a good basi for mani cream soup and sauces. to serv the broth , heat to the boil point , add lemon juic to tast . 
 season to tast with worcestershir , lemon juic and celeri salt. serv hot or chill . 
 cut them in 1/2-inch slice and saut in butter until brown on both sides. serv with pork dish . 
 place a fillet in each soup plate and fill with hot soup . serv 6 . 
 they were accompani by mrs. cochran . after the program , the ladi of the anniston chapter serv refresh while santa claus present gift to the student . 
 she sat besid him and look ardent into his face . a great feast was serv them , but fairhand and his ladi had thought onli for each other . 
 cut in squares. serv plain or with a dish of 1 cup heavi cream whip until stiff , sweeten with 2 tablespoon sugar , and flavor with 2 teaspoon vanilla extract . 
 a delic porcelain epergn laden with plum and apricot is an eleg centerpiece. fruit achiev it ultim when you serv it in it natur state accompani by chees . 
 sinc the very-young enjoy sit on cushion on the floor , the coffe tabl will make an excel substitut for a dine tabl . if they are serv a bit earlier than the other , an adult or teen-ag volunt can supervis , help them butter their bread , cut their meat , and just be on hand in case of troubl ! 
 i 'm sure they will enjoy the even too . our chairman of the even , jeanett miller , say `` do n't forget coffe and lunch which will be serv at 9:45 . `` 
 strain the soup through cheesecloth . add madeira just befor serv and garnish with chop parsley . serv 2 to 4 . 
 make a sauc with 1 tablespoon of onion juic , 3 fine chop anchovi fillet , 1 tin of tuna fish in oliv oil , 1 cup of mayonnais and 2 tablespoon of capers. blend well and serv with the slice veal . 
 grill frankfurt : spear tini frankfurt and grill until crisp. serv with a mustard-season sour cream dunk. good cold ham , sausag and ready-prepar meat , slice veri thin and serv with thin slice rye and pumpernickel bread , make tasti appet . 
 strain the bone from the broth and then strain the broth through a linen napkin to remov the excess fat. serv the broth plain or with ani of the addit suggest abov for consomm ( see page 111 ) . 
 that night , the guest were seat at franklin 's tabl . they were baffl when deborah serv them noth but a bowl of strange-look mush , and a pitcher of cold water . 
 while the sparerib are cook , bring the marinad to a boil , lower the heat and simmer for 40 minutes. serv this sauc with the rib and with them also serv rice , a platter of slice tomato and onion , dress with oil and vinegar , and some good bread and butter . 
 in 1980 , with $ 60,000 , they launch `` shear mad '' at a tini , basement cabaret theater in a boston alley. becaus of a slow start , the two dub their ventur cranberri product inc. , as in `` what do you serv with a turkey ? '' 
 broil for 20 minut , then turn and finish cook until brown and crisp. serv with wild rice or barley casserol . 
 the maiden seat herself upon the golden chair , and offer the silver one to her companion . they were serv by maiden dress in white , whose feet made no sound as they move about , and not a word was spoken dure the meal . 
 add a dash of lemon juic and pour the sauc over the meat. surround this with the onion and mushroom and serv with steam rice . 
 soon the `` greeneri `` and root veget were readi for harvest . pioneer women serv them at the begin of the meal while their famili were still hungri , to be sure they got them down ! 
 in short , she had everi trait of the kind of woman he could tie round his finger . he rose to her with the most dazzl smile he had achiev in week , guid her through the menu and wine-list and chose a meal for her which was alreadi flavour with flatteri befor it was serv . 
 if the chees mixtur get too thick , add a littl more kirsch . the follow quich recip may be serv as main dish for luncheon or late breakfast ; they are also suitabl as a first cours for dinner . 
 i wonder whether some , at least , of the hippi were smoke marijuana . when the rush of serv was over , peter set a chair in the middl of the room and marilyn came out , carri her guitar . 
 sometim this test can get pretti sticky. it would be much easier to describ this , for instanc , if each particip could have simpli been serv three cup , each contain one of the three choic . 
 heat consomm until pipe hot . serv in heat soup cup and garnish each serv with thin slice of celeriac ( celeri root ) , which have been cook until tender in salt water . 
 there is entertain -- clown , magician and santa claus -- and each child take home a present. light refresh -- ice cream , candi and punch ( ad to the cost of the compani 's dental plan ) are serv . 
 i love lot of good thing to eat , and i love to prepar them. here then is a sampl menu of what i would serv . 
 brush with soften butter and sprinkl with vanilla sugar. rewarm to serv . 
 this dish has a gelatin qualiti that mani peopl find veri tasty. serv it inform to guest who are n't afraid to use their finger , for the best of the meat cling to the bone and must be nibbl off . 
 dot liber with butter and broil until sizzl on top and soft through , but not mushy. serv with whip cream flavor with vanilla and sugar . 
 there is noth handsom in the veget line than a whole cook head of cauliflow , white , glisten with melt butter and surround with tini whole carrot and small whole green bean . it is equal eleg cook and chill and serv with other cook veget and a well-season mayonnais . 
 just then she kick the screen door open and came out with a tray with two drink in tall glass of plastic silver with foliag on top . beer was never serv with a sprig of mint to the best of my knowledg . 
 garnish with crouton if desir . serv 6 to 8 . 
 or , if you want a drink of water , you 'd be told that if you went clear across town , there 'd be a fountain for negro . you 'd wait 25 minut to be serv in a diner , and if you complain , you 'd be told , `` we do n't want nigger in here , anyhow . `` 
 do not overcook or the pear will be mushy. cool them in the syrup and serv plain or with whip cream or custard sauc . 
 derrick felt like hide too , when he saw that his parent were still fighting. he was sick when mom studious ignor pa 's entreat look , when she let dorothi hedla serv him instead of bring him breakfast herself . 
 prepar the sloppi joe exact as direct on the package. you can do this befor you go to the game and reheat the mixtur when you re readi to serv . 
 heat until pipe hot . serv 4 to 6 . 
 in either method , add more oil if past is too thick. serv over hot pasta spaghetti or fettucin with a dollop of butter , if you wish . 
 for this dish you need small clam littleneck or cherrystones. tell your fish dealer how you wish to serv them and he will remov half of the shell for you. serv 6 clam per person and arrang the shell on bed of ice . 
 per capita consumpt of process ( can and frozen ) veget increas dure the 1960 's , while per capita consumpt of fresh veget declined. consumpt of frozen and packag pie and cake , `` brown and serv `` roll , and cake and cooki mix has been soar , at the expens of home-bak product . 
 add more oil or a littl water , if needed. serv cold , sprinkl with parsley . 
 garnish each serv of consomm with narrow strip of french crepe ( paper-thin pancak ) . just befor serv the hot consomm , add port wine or sherri to tast , and slice raw mushroom . 
 ribbon extend from it , like highway , lead to each place . mrs. ford and gari serv an assort of sandwich , milk and gingerbread cooki shape like car . 
 for the children 's love feast in bethlehem , chocol milk and cooki are substitut . this present someth of a contradict , as children regular take part in other church love feast at which coffe is serv . 
 it make a fine bast sauc along with rosemari and garlic for roast pork . with thyme and parsley , it produc a good herb butter serv with salmon , halibut and bass . 
 cottag chees mix with chop chive and parsley. serv with mayonnaise. 2 . 
 it 's for peopl who think bermuda and nassau are vulgar and american and , besid , the nativ are get uppity. in montreux the nativ never get uppiti ; from septemb to may the hotel serv noth but roast beef and curri and take good care not to cook it too well . 
 still , the fajita pita is but a pale reflect of l.a. 's multi-ethn folk cuisin , which appear to have root that reach back to the mid-1940s. that is when , accord to one vagu local legend , a jewish man name mauri and his mexican wife mari serv the first kosher style burrito at an open-air lunch counter in the citi 's downtown busi district . 
 garnish with thin slice of hard-cook egg , lemon or avocado . serv 4 to 6 . 
 now tast the broth and add enough salt and pepper to suit yourself. serv immedi while still hot . 
 set asid to cool and then chill in the refrigerator. about 2 hour befor you are readi to serv , add the chop onion and parsley and addit oil if necessari . 
 do not let the asparagus stand in the water after it is done. drain at onc and serv with melt butter or hollandais sauc . 
 garnish with a sprinkl of chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 fish is good luck to eat at new year 's . it is serv both cook and raw . 
 when the veal is done , remov it to a hot platter and surround it with butter broccoli. serv with butter noodl light sprinkl with grate parmesan chees . 
 the slice should be crispi brown but pinkish in the center. salt and pepper them to tast , sprinkl with chop green onion and chop parsley and serv with the pan juic pour over them. with saute liver , serv crisp bacon strip , english mustard and tini new potato boil with their skin on . 
 by 7 p.m. , her pr duti done for the day , she liter climb onto the small stage at the gold star sardin bar and sang her first set. onli soft drink were serv , but the hous was sro anyway -- just like her open the night befor . 
 dure the last hour , add 6 carrot , the onion and the turnips. twenti minut befor you are readi to serv , add a quarter head of cabbag . 
 bread : dip slice of cold turkey in light beaten egg and then roll in fine crumbs. brown in plenti of butter or oliv oil and serv with a hot sauc diabl ( page 111 ) or tomato sauc ( page 111 ) . 
 you can introduc them in dessert or as a dessert by themselves. whenev you can , serv fresh produc . 
 big bowl of celeri and carrot stick , crispi cracker , chees , and whatev snack are plan , can be made part of the decor of the serv area. member of the famili should be at hand to serv , empti ashtray , and be of servic to the guests. instead of such a varieti of refresh , the host famili may prefer to featur a larg , beauti decor punch bowl , and serv a color punch to the guest . 
 aunt letti had stuf three turkey for the occas , but her dine room was not big enough for the herd she had invit . we serv ourselv from the tabl , then fill the chair , the stool and the couch in the live room . 
 light sprinkl with sugar , and pass sugar for individu to add more if desir . some southern add sherri to ambrosia when serv it as a dessert . serv 8 to 10 . 
 they were take a night plane home . dinner was serv in their room . 
 but she kept go , peddl her pizza to restaur and fanci hotels. ms. higa 's big break came when the royal host famili restaur chain agre to serv her pizza . 
 he shook hand self-consci with macra , larkin , dobb , and davi , as the pipe squealed. `` you have permiss to serv out a ration of spirit , '' he manag to tell davi and went below . 
 pour into pie shell and bake at dg350 for 35 minutes. cool and serv . 
 make about 3 quarts. to serv : heat , season to tast with lemon juic , white wine or sherri and serv hot or chill . 
 latvian also observ first , second , and third christma in america , with mani parti and visit . one christma specialti which is univers serv at such parti is piparkuka , the latvian version of peppernut . 
 gentl heat through , but do not let boil . serv 4 to 6 . 
 minut rice : use minut rice and cook it accord to the direct on the packag , substitut chicken broth or ani meat broth or stock for the water in the recipe. serv in ani of the way suggest for steam rice . 
 chill . stir in cognac or sherri just befor serv . 
 place in refriger until firm. serv with the whip cream or strawberri jam . 
 chill until firm ( about four hour ) . unmold ( see page 13 ) and serv surround by defrost frozen strawberri or fresh whole strawberri and remain top or cream. serv 6 . 
 his wife was a brilliant woman and still good-look . perhap she neglect her own hous a littl for her visit and parti ; she chang her servant everi three month and the general 's meal at home were serv unpunctu . 
 sometim he felt so elat about his life and happi household that he danc a littl mazurka befor he sat down to a meal with his famili . the rubinstein had a french cook , but nela like to surpris arthur with a favorit dish , such as partridg wrap in bacon and serv with red cabbag . 
 noth fill a person quit as full as a thanksgiv dinner . but we usual have a cold-turkey-sandwich snack befor the guest leav , serv , perhap , with a cup of coffe and apricot bar , someth sweet to top off the day . 
 yair sing three sabbath song he has learn in kindergarten. i serv bake fish . 
 roll in fine crumb and broil slowli in the oven or over charcoal until brown on one side ; then turn to brown on the other side. serv with sauc diabl ( page 111 ) , v4 ) . 
 when they are done , pour heat rum , cognac or grand marnier over them , ignit them and bring to the tabl blazing. serv with custard sauc or whip cream . 
 mani peopl object to the tast of cottonseed. serv smoke fish on a platter with toast finger , or arrang piec of the fish on toast finger yourself . 
 while the meat is finish , boil the potatoes. serv the meat slice on a platter and surround by the carrot and potato . 
 if use can beet , put them in a small pot with some of their liquid , and heat . when readi to serv , place the meat on a serv platter , remov the veget from the broth with a slot spoon , and arrang nice around the meat . 
 add more salt if necessary. serv in a salad bowl and garnish with slice hard-cook egg and chop parsley and chive . 
 they will be cook in about 5 minut . these marin scallop can be serv as an appet or as a main cours . 
 drain the cook potato on absorb paper . if you can cook these in advanc and then recrisp the potato for a minut in hot oil just befor serv , you will have a crisper , firmer veget . 
 it 's not so much what the ad say as what they do n't say , these specialist complain. thus , while one ad show a whole potato and a bottl of milk , they say it ignor the fact that the onli potato that mcdonald 's serv are french fri cook in beef fat and that one chocol milkshak contain about three time the sodium content of a regular order of french fri . 
 pan-fri small oyster and clam accord to direct for pan-fri clam , page 111 , v2. spear with toothpick and serv with a sharp tartar sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) . 
 put a good hunk of butter into the same pan in which the bean were cook . add drain bean and sizzl a littl befor serv . serv 4 -- 6 . 
 drain and cool. serv with a vinaigrett sauc ( see salad dress ) or mayonnais . 
 onli one car was park in front. `` al doe n't serv lunch , `` preston explain . 
 sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 with ice cream : fill the pineappl shell with vanilla ice cream. as a top for the ice cream , serv the fruit cut in cube and flavor with sugar and rum . 
 this is particular so for late-harvest rieslings. sautern , howev , is tradit serv with foie gras in the sautern region , which sound like an unbear rich combin . 
 `` we re veri posit , '' he said. `` we re go to keep serv good food , come up with a reorgan plan and emerg from this . '' 
 her famili may then invit the congreg to a littl get-togeth , call `` oleg shabbot , `` in the vestri or social room . this is a joy , happi , brief social period at which refresh are serv . 
 cook until the edg of the oyster begin to curl. serv at onc , sprinkl with paprika or chop parsley or chives. serv 6 . 
 chill . serv 4 to 6 . 
 religi symbol besid the cross there are mani symbol and legend that will add interest and color to famili gather : paschal lamb . in a famili that serv no meat dure lent , the lamb can be a mold , or can be cooki or cake cut in the shape of a lamb . 
 prepar a foreign meal onc a month also chang the pace . besid help to prepar the exot dish , famili member can use their ingenu to make the way of serv , or the tabl decor fit the meal be prepar . 
 cook and stir over low heat until slight thicken , but do not let boil. serv hot or chill . 
 brown the second side. serv on a plate , cover , so it will keep warm while your mother enjoy her strawberri first . 
 she slip the elast cord under her chin . the guest were serv hearti irish food : scallop potato , corn beef , green pea , and milk . 
 drop by spoon on wax paper . let cool at room temperatur befor serv or store . 
 with brown sugar : omit the honey and use 2 tablespoon of brown sugar. with chili sauc : add a bit of chili sauc just befor you serv . 
 befor you see the pineappl tank , you know where you are by the sweet smell of sun-ripen pineappl be simmer in sugar syrup or process into it own natur sweet juice. on interisland flight between honolulu and the neighbor island , stewardess on all flight serv free pineappl juic . 
 at supper i request the hunter to lower their voic , so she was not disturb ; and it was not till next morn that she made her appear . it had been my intent to have her meal serv apart , but wolf larsen put down his foot . 
 sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 3 to 5 . 
 he realiz that he was talk too much , almost boast , and compel himself to chang the subject . in a few moment , the first and third lieuten came in and the dinner was serv . 
 cover and cook over veri low heat until squab are done about 1-1/4 hours. cut the meat from the squab into bite-s piec and serv in the soup. serv 6 to 8 . 
 complet his `` educ `` in minnesota , he took a room in earli march at a boardinghous in milwauke , where eight differ locat were import to his legend . the morn of march 9 the cook serv a good breakfast . 
 add mussel and / or clam and heat through. serv in larg , heat soup plate with toast italian garlic bread. serv 6 to 8 . 
 i know angelique. i serv his tray in the loung and i eat in my room with the fold door open . 
 hard line to have to give up such prize , though. `` he sat in the armchair under the vent , wait for sangh to serv lunch while mereweth finish his report and lock it away in the strongbox . '' 
 probabl it was easier to lose one 's parent and be left entir alon than to be a step-stepchild who was n't want . when the pie was serv stan took one tast and roll his eye ecstat . 
 with parsley : add 4 tablespoon of chop parsley to the potato after they have been riced. with chive : add 2 tablespoon of chop chive to the rice potato and sprinkl chop parsley on top when you serv them . 
 this swamp creatur has been a prize delicaci in the gritti , industri suburb south of detroit sinc the 1800s. but last month state food regul ban johnni kolakowski from serv his $ 5 muskrat dinner at the indian lane bowl alley becaus the meat is n't offici inspect . 
 add minc clam and heat through . add a pat of butter befor serv and top with a few grind of pepper and a sprinkl of chop parsley . serv 2 to 4 . 
 chill until firm. break up with a fork and serv in chill soup cups. garnish each cup with a sprig of parsley , and serv with lemon wedges. serv 6 . 
 one was white , made of rice cook in milk and spice with almond , marmalad , and white raisin ; anoth was burnt gold in color , wheat grain flavor with buckwheat honey and date ; the third was black , prepar by soak rice in dark plum juic and garnish it with prune and black currant . the three pud were made into loav and serv with high flavor fruit and berri sauc , repres the product of the orchard . 
 discard bouquet garni , tast for season , and add the chop parsley . serv 8 . 
 soak in vinaigrett sauc ( page 111 , v4 ) for 1 or 2 hours. serv in a salad or with mayonnais . 
 `` i onli weigh a hundr pound . `` it was typic of the smith household that the bathroom scale on which jenni weigh herself were american , while the lacquer bowl in which much of the food was serv were japanes . jenni kimura and her mother could use a knife and fork quit as well as they could use chopstick , and the tabl appoint were vari accord to the food serv . 
 put the slice into the fri pan and bast with the sauc until the slice are well cover . warm through ( but do n't boil ) befor serv . 
 the best banana are ripe bananas. it should be unnecessari to make such a statement , but strang enough , mani peopl serv the fruit while it still has a green ting at the tip of the skin . 
 everybodi was alreadi in the kitchen when we got there . joe sat down at the tabl and i serv him . the women did n't sit at the tabl with the men on that day , they serv their men . 
 it might be worth it . incompet sale clerk are not like to make a store popular , and a smelli restaur doe not establish an atmospher of comfort and confid in what food are go to be serv . 
 the fraud was therefor a vocal one , and ani experi i had , beyond what the other sens , might have been due to my have receiv some hallucinogen drug . the fenwick had serv our meal between them , and gile had carri my coffe across the terrac when we rearrang the chair . 
 add a littl chop garlic and a touch of worcestershir sauc to them as they cook. serv with potato cook in their jacket and a bowl of sour cream and chop chive to dress the potato . 
 add thyme and season with salt and pepper . serv 4 . 
 ignit and carri to the tabl blazing. serv poach pear top with vanilla ice cream and crush raspberri or raspberri syrup. serv poach pear top with vanilla ice cream and hot chocol sauc . 
 garnish with whole berri or fresh mint leav . serv 6 . 
 despit scare stori , he reassur them , the radioact fallout from chernobyl was n't that bad in germany. it is safe to eat the local veget , drink the milk and serv the mushroom , he add , and anyon worri about wild game can marin it a few day in vinegar to cleans it . 
 cut stale bread into small cube and bake slowli in a dg275 oven until crisp and well browned. serv these with soup. if you wish to serv the crouton with veget or noodl , after brown them in the oven saut them in hot butter until they are sizzl hot and butteri . 
 heat , but do not boil . serv 8 . 
 add the meat and simmer for 1/2 hour , covered. serv with rice pilaff , crisp french-fri onion , chutney , toast almond , grate coconut , raisin soak in cognac and crisp , crumbl bacon . 
 he was perhap the best cook of afghan food around . prior to tawab 's dine with us , we had regular been serv dish that were western whenev we entertain . 
 garnish each serv with a dollop of salt whip cream , if desir . serv 6 to 8 . 
 en brochett simpli mean broil on skewers. allow 2 kidney and 4 larg mushroom per skewer and serv 1 skewer per person . 
 pour the pud mixtur into the bake dish , scrape the bowl clean with a rubber spatula ; set dish into a pan of warm water and bake in a preheat dg350 oven for approxim 30 minut , or until the pud is firm. remov with two pot holder and serv hot . 
 place the potato cube in a larg bowl , add the chop veget , bind with mayonnais and season with salt and pepper , if necessary. serv in a salad bowl and top with more mayonnais . 
 this should not take more than 15 minutes. serv with chop parsley , addit butter if necessari , and lemon wedg . 
 return cabbag roll to casserol , cover , and place in dg350 f. oven or over fire until whole is well heat , about 15 minutes. to serv , remov cover. if content are to be serv on platter , dish up sarma , and garnish with sour cream as describ . 
 much social drink today has ritualist overton the champagn toast to the bride and groom , for instanc , or even the cocktail party. mani peopl serv drink in a way that is fundament ritualist , though it is unlik that they would think of it in that manner . 
 then she has to make lunch , wash the dish , and do the shop . by then it 's time to start dinner prepar it , serv it , and clean up afterward . 
 place in a hot oven to melt and brown the chees . serv 4 to 6 . 
 further , we adopt a polici of ask onli one excel at a time so that he could sit at my wife 's right and enjoy the nice warm feel of be superior to everyon else. in mani area of our rural south , and perhap in other part of the countri , the women do not sit down to eat with the men , but serv them first . 
 max said as he drift off to sleep on the ride back to dean 's hotel . the next morn at the hotel we were serv hot tea and biscuit by a distinguished-look gentleman in a white uniform and turban . 
 the flavor are complementari , but the tomato seem to make the salad wateri . i suggest serv slice tomato or tini peel whole tomato on the side . the most common mistak peopl make with avocado is serv them befor they are fulli ripe . 
 onc more the charact of the passeng chang , and jenni found herself in a plane full of dark-suit businessmen with briefcas . the stewardess were kept busi serv drink , and jenni was left quit alon . 
 if the guest are care , they can open the top of the box , which is now the back of the cover wagon , and take out the raisin without ruin the favor. conestoga-wagon place card : if you serv your guest at a tabl , you can use these toy wagon as place card and give differ prize . 
 the carnivor , like sever other restaur here , is the place for gourmand seek what might be call gnu-vell cuisin , peopl like to ask `` where 's the beast ? '' actual , most of the game meat serv with some regular in africa are farm for that purpos , with some supplement from anim cull from overpopul herd . 
 then turn it upsid down to invert the content on a larg platter. serv with rice pilaff and tomato salad . 
 sprinkl with a few drop of lemon juic and add the flake fish. serv veri cold in chill soup cup , garnish with snip dill or parsley. serv 4 to 6 . 
 while in the refriger , the pie must be cover with wax paper . fifth : to garnish the pie befor serv , whip 1 cup heavi cream until stiff . 
 graduat day is a big mileston in your live and some celebr is certain indic . whi not invit a good-siz group of your friend for late supper at your hous , serv in buffet style ? 
 some of the bar on the list have substanti problem of violent crime. recap has idea for how the bar can reduc such crime ( such as not admit or not serv intox custom ) . 
 remov from heat and sprinkl with chervil . top each serv with a spoon of sour cream and sprinkl with a few drop of lemon juic . serv 4 to 6 . 
 fold in 3/4 cup whip cream and hide singl almond somewher in mixture. to serv , decor with swirl of remain whip cream and red and green maraschino cherri if desir . 
 simmer until the mixtur reach the consist of heavi cream about 1 hour . just befor serv , add the stuf crayfish head and heat through . 
 for a while i saw no pigeon , but then i found a larg flock that roost under the eav of the bishop museum , appar go out to forag in the countrysid dure the day . one summer in san juan , puerto rico , the hotel where i stay serv breakfast on an outdoor terrac , and the charm littl puerto rican honeycreep invad the tabl to get tidbit from the guest . 
 tast for season . serv 4 to 6 . 
 remov popov from the oven with two pot holder and take from pan with finger protect by a napkin. serv them pipe hot . 
 buy whole cook or uncook hard-shel crab , allow 1 per person unless they are the except larg crab from the pacif northwest. in that case , one crab will probabl serv two person . 
 stir the mixtur into balanc of soup. serv pipe hot , with a boil potato in each soup plate . 
 stir lemon juic into soup and chill. serv with a select of the follow garnish : thin slice of raw appl , thin lemon slice , sliver almond , chop fresh parsley , snip chive , fresh mint leaves. serv 4 to 6 . 
 `` fresh lemonad , `` said mom , as she fill the children 's cups. `` did you ever see circus-cart ice cream ? `` ask sue as she help serv dessert . 
 they were alway boss me around . there was still a littl time until christma supper would be serv . 
 stir in the chop parsley and chop onion. serv with slice of frankfurt in each bowl ( simmer the frankfurt for 15 minut and then slice ) , or with slice of garlic sausag ( simmer for 30 minut and then slice ) . 
 garnish with crouton . serv 4 . 
 heat at a simmer. serv in a separ dish so that those who want some may help themselv . 
 she smile a beauti bland smile at the empti stage , and the boy struggl past her larg pale knee and then past evi 's , mutter all the time. `` you 'd think they would serv popcorn , `` violet said calm . 
 later , the roman plant the field of tuscani abund with anis to suppli high demand for food flavor , medic addit and perfumes. roman cook made cake of anis meal and other aromat herb to serv follow rich entertain and wed feast . 
 mix oil , vinegar , salt and pepper and pour over the salad . serv 10 . 
 strain into a clean pan and gentl reheat. serv in heat soup plate , with melba toast and thin lemon slices. serv 4 . 
 if your parti is small , make cupcak , put one of these three ingredi into three of the cupcakes. mark these cupcak with toothpick so that you will be sure to serv them. if you bake a big cake , and do not serv the entir cake , the part of the cake with the `` fortun `` in it may remain uneaten . 
 cook over low heat for 30 minut . add the egg befor serv , and sprinkl with chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 shake the pan occasion to be sure the potato are not stick and are cook evenly. serv with a sprinkl of chop parsley or chop chive and parsley mix . 
 we left the nice young thai famili reluct , but the lunch did prove sumptuous . i had n't the slightest idea what we were eat , but it certain tast differ from what they serv at the hotel . 
 in this age of moder , the popular of a cocktail mix surpris sever marketers. but these , made by coca-cola , can be serv with or without alcohol . 
 the witch suspect no evil , and her mouth water to tast the new dish , so she went into the kitchen to prepar it herself . when it was readi she could not wait till it was serv at the tabl but immedi took a coupl of leav and put them in her mouth . 
 garnish with fine chop nut . serv 6 . 
 garnish with oliv slice or chop parsley . serv 6 . 
 season with salt and pepper and reheat . serv 4 to 6 . 
 lutt ouvrier , pari the follow letter was written to le mond by m. roger errera , a senior offici of the conseil d'etat , franc 's highest advisori bodi to the govern in legisl matters. allow me to make a few clarifi comment of a legal natur on the fact present in your recent articl concern a certain cafe in the latin quarter which refus to serv black . 
 these tini bird weigh onli about 1 pound each. serv one to a person . 
 top with a sprinkl of chop parsley . serv 4 to 6 . 
 will keep in refriger overnight , but no longer . serv 4 to 6 . 
 about 15 minut befor cook time is up , add the cabbage. strain and serv the broth as the first cours . 
 if you overcook , the meat will be dri and half the flavor gone. serv roast stuf turkey with saute tini white onion , mash potato and giblet sauc made with the turkey giblet and neck ( see page 111 ) . 
 this will take approxim 5 minut . if potato are not serv immedi , add 1/4 cup of water , cover , and keep on warm burner . evapor water befor serv . serv 8 . 
 then proceed as for regular noodl ( see abov ) . cook and serv green noodl as you would white noodl . 
 stir in the heavi cream. serv hot , garnish with croutons. serv 4 to 6 . 
 it was an ad for wine. the friend play a maid , serv wine to blond . 
 real sale are restaur sale after exclud the effect of addit outlet and price increases. in this case , wendi 's also exclud breakfast sale , as most of it restaur have stop serv breakfast . 
 note origin , this typic north american dish was made of corn and kidney bean , and cook in bear greas . the pilgrim ad various meat and serv the dish as a meal in itself . 
 mfs multimarket incom trust , a closed-end invest trust , said it sold 110 million share of benefici interest at $ 10 a share for a total of $ 1.1 billion , one of the largest initi public offer in the u.s. mfs multimarket , for which massachusett financi servic co. will serv as advis , invest in a varieti of invest vehicl to obtain a high level of current incom . 
 `` have got rid of mcclellan doe not seem to satisfi them ( stanton and halleck ) , `` major wainwright note . `` they would have everi man kill off that ever serv under him . `` 
 his other book are a kind of homecom and choic of straw . from 1960 to 1966 he serv in franc with the world veteran feder and with unesco . 
 mr. weaver , 52 year old , succeed edward r. farley jr. , the compani 's 67-year-old chairman and chief execut , who retired. mr. farley will continu to serv as a director . 
 `` mother did take an activ part in the sunday school work , though . she did n't teach a class , but she serv on a number of committe . onc she call on a woman who had just move to town , to ask her to serv on a fund-rais committe . 
 he was short chosen presid of the execut council of pennsylvania . while serv in this capac , he was chosen a member of the constitut convent which met in may 1787 . 
 it might have remain just that , remot and shroud in mysteri like the nearbi biblic citi of sodom and gomorah , had it not been for the dream of one man : dr. yigael yadin , professor of archeolog at the hebrew univers in jerusalem . yadin , today a quiet , 50-year-old scholar , was chief of oper dure israel 's 1948 war for independ , then serv as isra chief of staff until he resign in 1952 . 
 everi team put in $ 1,500 a year for each player into the pension fund , a figur match by the player . in the event of disput over salari , campbel serv as a mediat if either parti request arbitr and the owner felt he general gave the player the benefit of the doubt . 
 most of the children have receiv littl medic or dental attent . some 750 high-mind physician like dr. kruger will soon be serv in 41 such offic of econom opportun healthright center around the nation . 
 sorg and ott had hit it off from the start . both men had serv on the western front , and both love chess . 
 i share with dr. jone the feel that this present chapter in his life may well be climax by his presenc and wit for christ at the world ashram congress in jerusalem and galile , june 25-29 , 1972 five day of ashram fellowship with peopl from mani countri six day of walk where jesus walk in tour israel and jordan , and a climact communion servic at the sea of galilee. i am grate for the privileg to serv as chairman of this world event . 
 trimedyn , a maker of fiber-opt cathet for diagnost use , did n't give a reason for mr. henson 's resign , and the 41-year-old execut could n't be reach for comment. richard randal , execut vice presid and general manag of the compani 's medic laser unit , will serv as act presid and chief execut begin jan. 31 until a replac is found , trimedyn said. mr. henson , who has serv as presid and chief execut offic sinc 1983 , has agre to remain a director until feb. 28 or until a replac is select , the compani said . 
 final , wilcox conclud , a profession director would be haunt by `` the constant specter of conflict of interest . `` so wilcox decid to accept an offer to becom vice chairman of eastman dillon , union secur & co. , and continu serv on board ( current seven ) as a sidelin . 
 on friday , mr. fowler , who has champion broadcast and telecommun deregul , inform presid reagan that he intend to resign this spring. mr. fowler , who has serv for near six year , said , `` there 's a natur break point in life ; it 's time to move on . '' 
 small-busi owner who have n't paid such polit due `` will find it tough , '' he advises. paul farago , a pawtucket , r.i. , maker of small part use in assembl wire and cabl , has the advantag of serv as sen. robert dole 's financ chairman in a small state with a relat simpl delegate-select process , thus gain an insid track to a deleg 's slot . 
 in anoth recommend reflect the view of u.s. industri , the academi report also advis the commerc and state depart to regain `` leadership '' it say they have lost to the pentagon in form export-control policies. mr. allen , a former air forc chief of staff who now serv as vice presid of the california institut of technolog , said that while the pentagon has done a `` commend '' job in take an earli initi on the issu , the u.s. now must reassess it polici . 
 the depart will receiv public comment on the plan for 45 day , and then will make an offici proposal. ani new rule would supplement exist one that bar pilot , flight engin and attend from serv as crew member within eight hour of drink , while under the influenc of alcohol , or while use a drug that can hurt their perform . 
 a feder judg appoint eugen anderson , a former assist u.s. attorney in manhattan , as truste for the citi 's primari concret worker union. mr. anderson , a partner at anderson , russel , kill & olick in new york , will serv from april 6 , 1987 to late 1990 . 
 be the onli american with whom vergenn care to deal , the chief burden of the negoti with the french govern fell to him . he also serv virtual as consul , judg of admiralti , and director of naval affair . 
 the propos die for lack of a second. mr. henkel 's nomin was push by former sen. mack mat , a georgia republican who serv on the senat bank committe . 
 and his budget-cut effort often were thwart by member of congress determin to shield polit popular transit programs. befor becom umta administr , he serv as chief of staff to transport secretari elizabeth dole , and special assist to former transport secretari drew lewi . 
 and they re get healthi pay. doctor serv as chief execut of industri compani earn on averag $ 133,000 a year . 
 in his fiction hemingway face the truth , as he would n't in his life. in a stori he number among his favorit , `` in anoth countri , '' the protagonist , a patient in a milan hospit after be wound in world war i , modest know that his medal were award onli `` becaus i was an american '' serv with italian forc . 
 mr. ribicoff , a former u.s. senat from connecticut , declin comment other than to say , `` it speak for itself. '' he ad that he want to leav the warner board after three year , which is how long he has serv . 
 mr. gate was name act director after former director william casey resigned. he had serv as deputi director sinc last year , and befor that he serv more than four year as deputi director for intellig . 
 they argu that in mid-1984 , the cia in fact turn the contra war over to col. north and the nation secur council. unabl to use full-tim cia profession , this theori goe , col. north turn to a network of former and part-tim cia and pentagon employe , such as thoma cline , a former cia offic who serv in miami in the 1960s . 
 in cleveland , a number of former engin execut have becom taxi driver . and some of monsignor mccarthi 's parishion in palo verd are drive truck , serv as floorwalk in depart store , or tend gasolin pump . 
 unarm pilgrim would be welcom at the holi place ; unarm infidel might trade in the christian ports. as a part present saladin ad that not more than four latin priest might serv in the holi sepulchr . 
 these student repres about one-tenth of the midshipmen then in the navi . each was requir to have serv three year at sea . 
 at albani , he overtook chauncey who was return to sacket harbor from new york . although both men had serv in the mediterranean squadron year befor , they now met for the first time . 
 just as mani juror have come to suspect , this duti realli is becom more of a bureaucrat nightmare. those who actual serv on juri often walk away with renew confid in the system and say their experi was remark reward . 
 `` everybodi appreci a good joke , '' he point out , `` but onli anoth attorney appreci a well-draft debentur agreement. '' bill king , the comedian who serv as emce for the contest , say mani of the entrant are better perform than some of the amateur comic who test their skill at `` open-mik '' night . 
 he would recognis the present frontier of the christian , and in addit cede to them the harbour of beirut on condit they did not fortifi it. the holi place would be open to latin pilgrim , and latin priest might serv in them . 
 he burst into a room where they were all assembl , but no one knew who he was . onli his bride , who was serv as cook to her sister , recogn him at onc . 
 the seventeen year that follow his commiss as brevet second lieuten of engin were such as might have been spent by ani young offic of that servic who combin a fine presenc with social grace , exemplari conduct , energi , and abil . after seventeen month of work on fort pulaski , cockspur island , ga . , he serv as assist engin at fort monro , va . , from may 1831 to novemb 1834 . 
 in an import sens , ronald reagan is profound fortun in attract as distinguish an american as howard baker as chief of staff. with drew lewi and paul laxalt turn down the job , the administr was abl to come up with an appointe who has high plausibl qualif to serv in the presid itself . 
 it had on board captain robert gorg , son of sir ferdinando , who had brought along a shipload of immigr , a patent to a larg tract of land just to the north , and a commiss from the council for new england `` to be general governor of ye cuntrie. `` bradford was to be depriv of offic , though he was to serv temporarili as an assist . 
 i was challeng by the campaign , but i did n't have the enthusiasm '' for anoth term , he says. someth is wrong with the `` world 's greatest delib bodi '' when a senior committe chairman declar that he enjoy campaign but not actual serv in offic . 
 onli onc in a while did someth get into the paper when the person involv was promin . an editor got indign when a man by the name of jone casual murder a famous chickasaw warrior and councilor , emubbi , who had serv with general jackson in mani campaign . 
 mr. kennedi , a 31-year veteran of union carbid , was elect presid and chief execut in april 1986. he had previous serv as a corpor senior vice presid and as execut vice presid and group presid for chemic and plastic . 
 dog were use in all theater of oper , from north africa to germani and from the solomon island to japan . altogeth , more than 250,000 dog serv with the armi of the alli and axi power . 
 in 1879 he was made the first director of the smithsonian 's bureau of ethnolog , which he found . he had alreadi help to found the unit state geolog survey , under the depart of the interior , and serv as it second director . 
 as previous report , iran has threaten to flood the world market with cheap oil if it is n't a parti to a final agreement. despit assert by industri specialist that the iranian field are n't capabl of produc oil in such quantiti , the iranian declar made at the opec council tabl offend even arturo hernandez grisanti of venezuela , a moder minist who is serv as a mediat between the wide diverg iranian and arab faction . 
 `` he resigned. the whole staff of the survey depart then follow suit , refus to serv under a deputi who had success intrigu in london to oust light and to succeed him . 
 throughout his career as a revolutionari patriot he emphas `` right as deriv from the law of natur , '' not a king ; and here , as elsewher , he strove for the `` revind of saxon liberti '' ( chinard , commonplac book , p57 ) . elect by the virginia convent to serv in congress in case peyton randolph should be requir at home , jefferson sat in that bodi dure the summer and autumn of 1775 . 
 stupid me ! after three issu , i was ask to serv on the board of the msb becaus of an editori on `` diplomaci `` . sinc the organ blind chose to neither endors nor oppos my elect , i serv as an independ . 
 the follow explan to his father-in-law is the main sourc of our knowledg of hamilton 's singl person differ with washington . he had serv at headquart four year , much of that time `` as the princip and most confidenti aid of the command in chief . `` 
 add barbara hackman franklin , a corpor director who head the govern and busi program at the wharton school of the univers of pennsylvania in philadelphia : `` it sound like an awkward situat at best. '' ms. malon , who is black and serv on the board of sever other big compani , defend her decis . 
 yutaro hayashi , 51 year old , was name presid and chief execut offic of mitsui manufactur bank , effect immediately. he succeed the retir 65-year-old leonard weil , who will serv as presid emeritus . 
 mr. demuth is a young , wide respect lawyer and free-market economist. earli in the reagan administr he serv as the omb associ director in charg of put some brake on feder regul . 
 the govern had to rent slave from their owner and use them as armi laborers. at the same time it exempt one white man for everi plantat of fifteen slave or more to serv as overs . 
 the center , which is to hous sever art galleri and two theater , as well as studio and offic , will be known as the wexner center for the visual arts. mr. wexner , who was graduat from ohio state in 1959 , serv as chairman of the ohio state univers foundat , which rais money for the univers . 
 the panel also name paul barbadoro , an attorney in the concord , n.h. , law firm of orr & reno , as deputi counsel. mr. liman , 54 year old , has relat brief experi as a prosecutor , have serv from 1961 to 1963 as an assist u.s. attorney for the southern district of new york . 
 mr. tack , who has been a director sinc 1969 , work his way through the compani most in the electron system group , where he was senior vice presid in charg of that group from 1977 to 1983 , when he was elect presid and chief oper officer. mr. dixon will continu as chairman emeritus , a director , and will serv as a consult to the compani . 
 aunt edme had gone to franc sever year earlier with the beauharnai family. she had met them in martiniqu when the marqui de beauharnai went there to serv as governor and lieutenant-gener of the windward isl . 
 moleculon , which make a product that allow drug to be absorb through patch affix to the skin , said the $ 28 million purchas is expect to be complet in novemb , provid sharehold author an increas in common share and the issuanc of the prefer stock. fauld is to name two repres to serv on moleculon 's board , which will be expand to six member . 
 with acquisit of the system program div . of digitek , ryan-mcfarland got all contract , warranti and mainten right for exist custom . ryan form digitek in 1961 with jim dunlap , who serv as it presid for eight year . 
 now i wonder which of them it was we was talk to ? `` back at the boardinghous that night at supper , i found out from my landladi that the lawyer we 'd met was mr. lincoln , his partner be out of town , serv in the congress in washington . 
 he did not mind be poor , he said , for peopl with small incom were as happi as those with fortun . for eight year , from mar. 17 , 1892 , he serv on the circuit court . 
 it had near prove fatal to me also . and falconbridg was serv on the better class of english slaver . 
 next monday , the suprem court of ontario will hear mr. pezim 's request to have five corona director remov and replac with his nomine or with court-appointees. mr. pezim , who help found the compani , vow to press his feud against manag , say the board broke an agreement under which he was to have continu to serv in an `` execut posit . '' 
 he will report direct to a.w. clausen , bankamerica 's chairman and chief executive. he also will serv on the compani 's manag and money and loan committe . 
 this group eventu took over the manag of the school organ by the quaker women , the first quaker school becom new york citi 's p.s. one . elsewher quaker help to press for the establish of public school and sometim serv on school board . 
 mr. carmichael , 41 year old , succeed richard l. phillip , 60 , who is retiring. mr. phillip was appoint chairman emeritus of shelbi and will serv as a consult to the compani . 
 philip , base in dayton , ohio , manufactur compon for the mobile-hom industri , and it revenu of $ 186,700,000 in it latest fiscal year were about as much as i. b. m. take in everi eight day . whi did learson , who also serv on the board of such giant as standard oil ( n.j. ) , becom a director of a relat small compani ? 
 he work with mr. boeski as a trader at edward & han in the earli 1970s , befor join a predecessor of seemala in 1975. he becam a senior vice presid in charg of trade for sever boeski entiti and serv on seemala 's execut committe . 
 `` he jab a blunt forefing at curt 's chest . `` but you ai n't even serv in the armi ai n't had even that much train in take care of yourself . 
 even though the subsequ convict of mr. italiano allow mr. merkl to claim anoth victori , the attack on mr. merkl by an incumb governor could be a serious threat. the prosecutor 's four-year term ran out a year ago , so he is serv at the pleasur of presid reagan . 
 mr. carter , like mr. reagan , believ prior notif to congress risk revel that would have jeopard the live of those involv in these operations. after serv two year on the hous intellig committe , i can understand the presid 's concern about leak . 
 `` did your vessel leav the coast in the day or the night ? `` the question was put by a member of the committe to dr thoma trotter , who had serv as surgeon on board the liverpool slaver brook 9 between cape palma and anamabu in the year 1783 and 1784 . 
 as a young man he live in a home for tramp in vienna , do odd job and paint poor pictur . in the first world war he serv in the german armi , and rose to the rank of corpor . 
 `` some mother blame the press and the govern for their son ' anxieti . `` what the hell 's the matter with america ? `` angrili exclaim mrs. georg mauro of brooklyn , whose son , robert , had serv in calley 's platoon . `` 
 in 1841 , pennsylvania hospit open an institut for the care of the insan in west philadelphia with dr. thoma kirkbrid , a quaker , as it first superintend . dr. kirkbrid had serv as a resid physician at friend hospit in frankford , and was eager to tri the experi of use `` moral suasion `` rather than mechan restraint at the new pennsylvania institut . 
 these victori were relat small and local , but they prove inspiring. men enlist , proud to serv under a brilliant general in the caus of freedom . 
 he had also becom interest in polit and join the republican parti . in the fall of 1881 , he was elect to the new york state legislatur , where he serv three term . 
 mauric dolbier grew up in skowhegan , main , and attend the whitehous academi of dramat art in boston , massachusett , befor embark on a career as an actor . he later turn to radio broadcast in bangor , main , where he serv as writer , produc , and program director . 
 with the stock now at about $ 64.50 , his paper profit is about $ 2.1 million. he also serv as a viratek director , receiv $ 25,000 a year as a consult and get royalti for sale of the mist devic . 
 alic heard of the servic and the committe and their plans. she knew they were consid send an american nurs oversea to serv with the british armi ; that nurs would be call the edith cavel memori nurs . 
 as secretari of state , clay was thorough loyal throughout to the administr . he serv the full term and perhap never spent a more miser and uninterest four year in all his life . 
 she was suppos to have eight huge , fifteen-inch gun , but when she arriv in casablanca from lorient she onli had four . they were all in a singl turret on the foredeck and it was in that turret that my father serv . 
 the success of erhard 's gambl earn him the posit of secretari of econom in west germani 's first government. there he serv under konrad adenau , who himself was an amateur in econom but an astut politician . 
 some of these group , meanwhil , also are move well beyond simpli contributing. the home builder , for exampl , are attempt to increas the number of it member who serv as deleg to the 1984 presidenti convent to about 150 deleg from the rough 80 elect four year ago . 
 kaisertech did n't name successor for mr. maier in his post at the parent. the compani said mr. maier will remain a director and member of the execut committe of kaisertech and kaiser aluminum , and will serv as a consult to both compani through 1992 . 
 tracor was pick from a list of about 137 compani , mr. inman said. he had serv on tracor 's board until june , when he found the compani to be one of 24 on his final list of potenti acquisit , he said . 
 a round robin , sign by 63 moscow and leningrad writer , urg the parti to obtain the releas of the writer . a member of the moscow univers faculti who serv as a defens wit at the trial is dismiss , and 18 of his colleagu protest . 
 two of the passeng on this trip were the brother john and charl wesley , founder of the methodist church. the truste ask john to serv as chaplain to the new coloni , and charl function as oglethorp 's secretari for a time . 
 `` it was me who was chase them . `` an aggress player who had made a studi of his craft , he was insert by muzz patrick into the ranger front offic where he serv as assist general manag . 
 but while the contra ca n't defeat the sandinista militarili , their eventu disappear might nevertheless jar the region balanc of power. `` my guess is the sandinista would not return to their old way immedi , '' comment a rank u.s. diplomat serv in central america . 
 now royal troop were take over. but the more he heard of forb the more he wish to serv under him . 
 howev , the dollar show some resili in earli trade today in tokyo , where the u.s. currenc was quot at 143.18 yen. it had been wide expect among market particip that mr. volcker would serv a third four-year term as fed chief . 
 as i recollect garibaldi 's terribl difficult not to say complic lineag , his english mother had present him to his italian father in the countri of franc . howev this trilog may be , he had serv at various time in the italian , french and english armi . 
 he gaze at crowd row of wound troop sprawl around the insid wall : a hellhol of bawl , bleed , rattl , writh , gangren , groan feder and confeder . negro , serv as stretcher-bear and sawbon ' assist , scamper to and fro . 
 often the captain is a natur leader . he receiv a bonus for serv in this capac , which give him a major privileg over the other player . 
 he base his hope on statist he cite suggest that the administr has done well so far in keep presidenti appointe on the job. mr. tuttl 's offic say cabinet secretari in the reagan administr have serv an averag of 41 month , longer than the averag in the carter administr or the combin nixon-ford and kennedy-johnson administr . 
 i call it a gift from heaven. when the unit state enter world war i in april 1917 , i was determin to serv as an aviat . 
 butch work extens on a conserv project and devot over 40 hour to communiti servic . he also serv as patrol leader for six month and attain the rank of life scout . 
 they are ponder whether to approach the challeng and headach of a separ , sovereign micronesia or to seek assimil within the boundari of their power but often distract guardian america . soon , the island will choos one of these cours , therebi final determin the shape of their futur . ( p. f. kluge serv two year with the peac corp in micronesia . 
 `` as an undergradu dr. mcintyr had been an enthusiast member of the dartmouth outing club . while serv as an armi surgeon in korea he had learn to fli helicopt . 
 one viewer fire off a telegram say : `` wallac is pimp for the protest . `` a new york time survey of some gi 's serv in the quang ngai area near my lai 4 found wholesal resist to the idea that charli compani had massacr some civilian . 
 `` i have noth but the utmost respect for mauric segal , and i ll continu to take his money at poker , '' mr. sherman said. until a successor is name , mr. segal will serv as act chairman of the divis . 
 mr. proxmir would presid over confirm hear for mr. henkel if he is renomin by presid reagan. becaus he was appoint while the senat was n't in session , mr. henkel serv without confirm . 
 mr. pearson , at a news confer befor the annual meet , predict mellon `` will be in the black '' again by year 's end. the 75-year-old execut , who serv as financi advis to billionair paul mellon and has been a director of the bank sinc 1972 , also stress he will serv as chairman onli until a successor to mr. barn is name . 
 the recommend on electro-biolog 's devic , made by a panel of orthoped specialist appoint by the fda , was base on a review of follow-up clinic data on patient treat by the devic befor 1979. `` the panel review data and conclud the effect of the devic can not be establish , '' said nirmal k. mishra , an fda offici , who serv as secretari to the advisori panel . 
 and the thing that drive you absolut crazi is that he 's still got some sort of a reput that date back to the peopl he was associ with befor the depress . `` in his earli year gordon had serv on the staff of some of the most promin psychoanalyst in the countri , but had never blaze ani rail himself . 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday , barri close at $ 7.75 a share , up $ 1. burt sugarman , chairman and chief execut offic of barri and giant , said guber-pet principl jon peter and peter guber will both serv in the new posit of manag director of barri , and have the option to becom barri co-presid . 
 becaus monnet is by natur so outgo and friend , he is a welcom figur in mani capit citi ; and becaus he has never been connect with ani particular polit parti , or sought person power , he has no competitor and few enemi . in the first world war , monnet was alreadi work to promot anglo-french cooper with the unit state , and for a time he serv as deputi secretari to the leagu of nation . 
 everi time he travel from pretoria to johannesburg on the ben schoeman highway , he was remind about what was expect of him. natur , it was expect that he eager serv his obligatori stint in the armi . 
 the letter cite the suit that guin brought against him and ernest saunder , guin 's former chairman , in late march to recov the payment. `` it would be inconsist for me to continu to serv on the board pend final resolut of the disput , '' the letter said . 
 mr. vineyard is await sentenc on a jan. 30 feder court convict for conspiraci to commit mail and wire fraud and for falsifi document in order to receiv loan from key , the bank board said. mr. vineyard serv as chairman of the thrift and resign juli 1 after he was indict by a feder grand juri , accord to the bank board . 
 arthur had to fish out his passport for the guard at each border , and the inform on the passport was a bit of a fake. had his true age and status been record , he could have been forc to serv in the russian armi . 
 e. r. braithwait was born in georgetown , british guiana. he took a b. sc. in physic at new york univers in 1942 befor go to england to serv in the royal air forc from 1943 to 1946 . 
 the word spread like wildfir through the ship ; men who had careless dice away their pay an hour ago becam tightfist , debt were collect , and the liberti parti sought good thought to be in demand in china . these men were sophist ; they had serv as slaver in africa , touch everi port in the west indi and central america . 
 knit and hosieri guild were form which brought the standard of knit to great perfect . men serv an apprenticeship of six year , three to learn , three to travel and studi other method and design . 
 after their freshman year , yale undergradu divid up into twelv residenti colleg . the facil avail at each of the colleg were inventori a while back by novelist john hersey , who serv as master of one of them , pierson colleg , for five year . 
 `` she 's so slim , '' sigh a woman who isn't. for the benefit of those peopl who have never seen `` wheel of fortun '' becaus it run opposit `` the macneil/lehr newshour '' in some citi , for the past 4 1/2 year ms. white , 30 , has serv as `` wheel 's '' hostess/human mannequin/ '' letter turner '' and has made her sole vocal contribut , `` bye-by , '' someth of a byword . 
 tom was wrong in one thing : bismarck was n't an ass , whatev els he might be . in some way he was like that outstand idiot cardigan , under whom i had serv in the 11th hussar , but onli on the surfac . 
 in peac or war , everi able-bodi man had to wear his nation uniform . after serv a certain number of year , the men were discharg into a reserv . 
 niagara mohawk power corp. said john g. haehl jr. has agre to serv an addit year as chairman and chief execut offic . 
 he succeed august l. streater , 65 , who plan to retir dec. 31. mr. streater will continu to serv on franklin 's board . 
 biograph note are given onli for the more import of those not number in the pilgrim compani ( appendix a ) . ( post of deputi governor was creat in 1680 . ) ( there was onli one assist governor , 1621-23 ; number increas to five in 1624 , to seven in 1633 . with except of allerton , name of those who serv befor 1633 are unknown , but there is ground for reason conjectur ( ) indic probabl year of servic befor 1633 . 
 `` to make someth out of it , and to do a good deed. '' mr. cline 's role in nsc staff oper appear to have come larg through maj. gen. secord , and he serv as a lieuten of sort to the retir air forc offic . 
 `` a prolong period of uncertainti would be harm to the cia , the intellig communiti and potenti our nation secur , '' he wrote. in his written repli to mr. gate , the presid describ the 20-year cia analyst as `` a remark talent and dedic man '' and ask that he continu to serv as deputi director of the agenc . 
 director and offic control about 10.5 % of cbi 's common share outstanding. the director serv stagger term and , a spokesman said , cbi has a poison pill provis design to deter takeov . 
 when we return to school this fall , there was a new face in the princip 's offic , mr. gari coker . befor this year he had serv on this staff as a mobil instructor . 
 claudin b. malon face an unusu dilemma when she learn in mid-februari that dart group corp. was consid a bid for supermarket general corp. for eight year , the 50-year-old teacher and manag consult from mclean , va. , had serv as an outsid director on the board of both compani . 
 mr. wyman himself was critic by mr. tisch for fail to move quick enough to cut cost and streamlin cbs in the face of weaken nation advertis spending. cbs also settl with peter derow , who serv as presid of it publish group through octob 1986 , the proxi reveal . 
 but he becam a soldier under the name of georg slant , a trooper in the cavalri . and he had serv for more than a dozen year , in wyom , in montana , and final in new mexico . 
 onli 5 % of the asset are held in cash reserves. he will serv the remain three year of the 14-year term of emmett rice , who was nomin by presid carter . 
 but for some , the low pay caus a real hardship. a free-lanc word processor figur the two-week jury-duti stint would cost her $ 1,200 ; she , too , never got to serv . 
 both of us were member of our naval academi class of 1939 ; both of us finish submarin train and report to our first submarin in 1941 . both of us serv on board submarin throughout world war ii , begin in subordin capac and final conclud the war in command of our own boat . 
 on the one hand , we rever the offic and want to honor it holder. on the other hand , we also want to remind him he 's just anoth citizen serv at our pleasur . 
 gold field said 28 % of it share are held by miner & resourc corp. , or minarco , which is partial own by the two south african mine companies. two minarco offici serv as non-execut director on gold field ' board , but gold field insist it is independ . 
 on the way to our interview with learson , now chairman and chief execut offic , and frank t. cari , the new presid , we had consid some of the specul that we had heard and read about the manag changes. one rumor that is frequent heard is that learson now 59 and thus six year from retir would not serv that long but instead give way to cari , perhap in combin with georg beitzel or gilbert jone . 
 news corp. offici could n't be reach for comment late yesterday , nor could mr. thoma , who was said by the compani to be leav to `` pursu other interests. '' he will serv as a consult to harper & row , which temporarili will be led by the two top execut of a british book publish in which news corp. hold a major stake . 
 this must be the hottest day we ve had . `` hyde , a dour , thin man who had serv in the navi a long time , gave him a queer look . `` 
 some of them were sore tempt to come out strong for a european secur confer , in order to sound as `` forthcom `` as possibl in the ear of their own peace-mind elector . old socialist pietro nenni , who was serv briefli as foreign minist in a precari italian coalit , was one of these . 
 year of neglect and indiscrimin alter had made the constitut slow and logi , a `` wet `` sailer that ship water in everi breez . hull might have been will to accept such condit had he not serv as lieuten in the frigat when she was fresh from the way . 
 langston found that the intern brigad was integr . negro and white serv in mix compani , with negro offic have white soldier under their command , too . 
 separ , the compani said thoma r. wheelock , 40 year old , resign as chief oper officer. mr. wheelock , who also serv as execut vice presid , was name to the posit as chief oper offic on may 5 . 
 penn central also said that herbert winokur jr. resign as senior execut vice presid and a director , and that edward f. kosnik resign as execut vice presid , chief financi offic and director. mr. winokur and mr. kosnik will serv as consult to penn central . 
 mr. reagan also name frank donatelli , a longtim reagan polit support and partner at the washington law firm of patton , bogg & blow , as white hous polit director. the 37-year-old mr. donatelli , who serv as presid reagan 's public-liaison chief from 1984 to 1985 , succeed mitchel daniel . 
 recogn these posit reaction , hospit superintend ask for more co units. when there were not enough conscienti objector to fill the need , young wive and sweetheart were recruit to serv in women 's unit . 
 elect offici play the matter stonefaced. they certifi the ballot count and declar the beast elect , then said that unfortun the success candid could not serv under the law all public offici must be qualifi voter who can read and write . 
 that the negro-american is come on as a potent polit forc is reveal by the chang that have occur sinc moon made that statement . justic thurgood marshal is a member of the suprem court , have serv as solicitor general , the third-rank post in the depart of justic . 
 the writer serv as chief of rail cost and price polici at the icc dure 1980-81 and testifi on behalf of the justic depart in the sf-sp proceed . 
 onc you let world polit dictat the polici of the olymp , where doe it end ? if the ioc has the right to dictat to south africa on a matter of intern affair , can it tell russia that it athlet must not serv in the russian armi ? 
 it was this man who came to the throne on the death of horemhab , drop the definit articl p at the begin of his name and reign as ramess i. although he was the first king of the nineteenth dynasti ( 1304-1195 b. c. ) he was alreadi old when he came to the throne and reign for about twenti month . the real founder of this glorious dynasti , the restor of egypt 's great , was sethi i , his son , who had also serv under horemhab . 
 later , she return to the compani as controller. a certifi public account and a harvard-educ mba , ms. malon serv most on the audit and financ committe of the board she has joined. last year she serv on nine board , includ limit inc. , campbel soup co. , scott paper co. and houghton mifflin co. accord to 1986 proxi statement file with the secur and exchang commiss , ms. malon receiv more than $ 93,000 in annual retain for serv on the board , plus addit fee of as much as $ 1,000 each time she attend a meet . 
 eventu , he was sent to the counti jail in albuquerqu , n. m. for two week he was lock in with 18 men , and fought with them for sever day to avoid be gang-rap . `` i hate to see the younger boy those 15 or 16 walk in here , `` said herschel thoma , who serv as superintend of the indiana reformatori in 1968 and 1969 . 
 but he would warn , `` it take adjust to life , and matur , to make a great musician . `` he gave similar advic when he serv as a judg each year for the `` audit for music talent in our school `` sponsor by radio station wqxr and the new york time . 
 oh , we never did anyth especi festiv trip to the zoo , a tour of constitut hall , thing like that but i could rememb how delight i felt to be out with the two of them , and how happi they 'd seem in each other 's compani , and in mine. too , i could rememb the terrifi rebellion i 'd glimps for a moment in my mother 's face the day my father was call to serv in the korean war . 
 separ , h. barclay morley , former chairman and chief execut offic of stauffer chemic co. , was name a director of schering-plough , increas board membership to 17. mr. morley previous serv on the board from 1979 to 1985 . 
 wendi gramm , the head of regulatori affair at the offic of manag and budget , is an abl economist and familiar with transport issues. john snow , the presid of csx , a lead freight compani , has serv as an assist secretari of transport and recogn that more deregul will benefit consum and shipper alik . 
 in addit to the peopl on the titan and carpathia , certain other contribut valuabl help in prepar this book . captain charl victor grove has aid me great in piec togeth the stori of the californian , on which he serv as third offic . 
 more import , they crack the rule allianc . pierr elliott trudeau serv as an unpaid legal advis for the miner ' union . 
 the select committe are expect to begin a new round of public hear next month , and the hous panel is schedul to hold an organiz meet this morning. among the lead candid to be the panel 's special counsel is john nield , a washington attorney who serv as chief counsel to the hous committe on standard and offici conduct dure the `` koreag '' influence-peddl inquiri of the late 1970s . 
 pleas telegraph acknowledg . alic had a strong feel of loyalti to the british nurs servic , in which she had serv . 
 hire mr. inman was seen as a coup for westmark , which was expect to benefit from the high profil and govern contact that mr. inman brought to microelectron & comput technology. mr. inman previous serv as a director of the nation secur agenc and deputi director of the central intellig agenc . 
 the present govern call for negoti for region autonomi while continu to pursu a militari solut , and maj. dawit was activ in enforc that policy. for mani year he serv in the second divis in eritrea . 
 other offic includ : gertrud gibbin , first vice-presid ; jame daniel , second vice-presid ; arrietta hudson , record secretari ; joe arnold , correspond secretari ; larri batson , treasur ; with ida bell edward and evelyn lee as board members. bill gibbin was appoint marshal and arrietta hudson will serv as chaplain . 
 as a result of all these thread hold it to europ , the afsc establish small intern center in pari , berlin , vienna , geneva , warsaw , and moscow. a director , often a man and his wife , was appoint by either the british or american friend to serv as a host to the center . 
 who will reimburs my compani for the econom jail it 's been in for 2 1/2 year ? '' when ask by the associ press if he would ever consid serv in govern again , mr. donovan repli : `` i will not . '' 
 but hundr of thousand of other were at risk. i serv as a staff offic in vietnam in 1966-67 with mani other non-combat troop . 
 `` he like to tilt against the establish , '' said a dalla lawyer , although mr. susman 's background hard set him apart from the legal bluebloods. mr. susman , a nativ texan and a yale graduat who edit the univers of texa law review , later serv as a suprem court clerk and was a partner in houston 's prestigi fulbright & jaworski law firm . 
 i wish to prepar myself by octob for examin as a counsellor ; but some public avoc may possibl prevent me. i had almost forgotten to tell you that i have been pretti unanim elect , by the legislatur of this state , a member of congress , to begin to serv in novemb . 
 this he could follow in the original. he like lenoir , and was pleas that he , too , had been pick to serv on the subcommitte . 
 but the compani said it would undertak an immedi nationwid search and has decid that mr. taylor 's replac `` will come from outsid the company. '' meanwhil , frank n. davi , presid of energi nation inc. , a up & l subsidiari , was name act presid and chief execut and will serv on the board until a replac is name , utah power said . 
 but in recent month , acquaint say , mr. tisch had grown to enjoy his role as a media execut , and in public statement , mr. tisch made it increas clear that if director offer him the job full time , he would take it. `` although i had been ask and had intend to serv as chief execut offic of cbs onli for a brief transit period , i have becom increas impress over the last four month with the strength and potenti of this great compani and it peopl , '' mr. tisch said in a statement . 
 in septemb combat oper in quang ngai were hand over to a newli form unit known as the amer divis , which was compos of three brigad the 196th , which had serv as part of task forc oregon , and two new fight unit , the 11th brigad from schofield barrack , hawaii , and the 198th brigad from fort hood , texas. mani of the senior offic of the new divis came from fort hood expressli to serv in the new headquart , under the command of major general samuel w. koster. a west pointer , koster had the rare opportun to put togeth his own command staff , and select a number of his classmat and friend to serv with him . 
 i shall find the place where peopl go after death veri dreari . it is like hell for a father to be separ from his children and i have serv my apprenticeship ever sinc my daughter marri . 
 charl duke of st. alban possess no great abil . he certain inherit his father 's and his mother 's courag , for he serv in the emperor 's armi at the sieg of belgrad and acquit himself valiant when the austrian wrest it from the turk dure 1688 . 
 `` kay hall knew presid kennedi well . she had serv on his inaugur committe and had conceiv the idea of invit the two hundr emin award winner in the field of art , scienc , and the human as special guest to his inaugur . 
 g. e. paid for two suit in washington 's waterg hotel , and day soon pull togeth an inform consult committe of sever dozen labor-rel manag from larg corpor , with whom he would confer general over the long-dist phone on pend matter of major significance. day also recruit roger m. blough , the former chief execut offic of u.s. steel corp. , to serv as an advis . 
 i saw it as the climax of a long odyssey , which had start with night school and had taken me through two institut of higher learn and anoth stint in the marines. i had reenlist to vindic my record , to prove that i could endur boot camp and serv honor if i put my will to it . 
 it was the end of an era . de gaull was succeed as presid by georg pompidou , a gaullist who had serv under him , but evid differ from his polici on some import issu . 
 howev , the king 's subject did not ralli to his cause. mani of his offic , sympath with the american , did not wish to serv against them . 
 mr. gillett 's rise to promin in the broadcast industri follow an eclect career. he has work for crown zellerbach corp. as a salesman , form a comput softwar compani , act as a manag consult for mckinsey & co. , serv as busi manag and part owner of the miami dolphin , and own and ran the harlem globetrott with two partner for about a decad . 
 as deepli commit as col. north was to the insurg ' caus , he and his associ increas took it upon themselv to run the war , as had the cia befor them. `` the heavi hand of the gringo is need , '' wrote robert owen , who serv as a courier between the white hous and the contra leadership . 
 it was onli becaus he had felt himself abl to run away at ani minut that he had not want to do so ; now , howev , that he had becom familiar with life in ashpit place he no longer mind it , and could live glad in lower part of london than that so long as he could pay his way . it was from no prudenc or forethought that he had serv this apprenticeship to life among the poor . 
 perot , too , has sinc been knock out of the billionair rank ( his hold are current worth just $ 666,000,000 ) but not out of the news . he serv as chairman of unit we stand , a lobbi that support presid nixon 's earli polici in vietnam . 
 director are set up more committe , meet more often , and feel freer to put tough question to management. profession director , usual retir execut who serv on sever board , are like to becom more common . 
 delawar , the state in which gm is incorpor , amend it law last year allow such a chang in a compani 's certif of incorpor , and mani corpor have alreadi taken such action. the proxi note the increas unwilling of director to serv on board without greater protect , and said the premium for gm 's director insur have `` increas substanti . '' 
 the group oppos current manag , he said , becaus pay-fon 's result have been `` inadequ in term of the revenu flat that has persist at the company. '' respond to the kahn group 's proxi materi , pay-fon issu a sharehold letter say that `` the kahn slate has neither the experi nor the qualif necessari '' to serv as director . 
 `` i think i did the right thing , '' he says. robert cullen had littl choic about retir when he return to the u.s. last spring after serv in south korea for two year as a vice presid of a general food corp. affili . 
 mr. shoemak , a sale manag in southborough , mass. , serv in vietnam in 1970 . 
 his public appear was postpon last week after he claim a hazi memori or lack of knowledg of mani financi detail , accord to person familiar with the privat sessions. although he serv as interpret between american and iranian in the iran-contra affair , mr. hakim told investig that he had difficulti understand their question , the sourc say . 
 term were n't disclosed. lawrenc chimerin , chairman of chase econometr , will serv as chairman and chief execut offic . 
 i now offer my servic for ani expans of the chore recent laid upon me , anyth in which i might help him out in his own work , even . dean shafto was for the time be serv as act presid . 
 neither mr. wohlstett nor mr. lemast was avail for addit comment , and a compani spokesman declin to elaborate. mr. weber , 50 , had serv as interim chief execut immedi after mr. napier 's resign . 
 treasuri secretari jame baker , who former held the post , and former transport secretari drew lewi , current chairman of union pacif corp. , have been mention as possibl candidates. mr. baker is said to be reluct and mr. lewi has told the white hous he has no interest in serv on a full-tim or long-term basi -- a situat two sourc say the white hous has accept . 
 as the next best expedi , hamilton propos a chief execut chosen practic for life , hold the balanc between the excit bodi of the peopl on the one hand , and the minor of citizen of properti and posit on the other. the democrat lower hous was to be elect direct by the peopl for a short term ; the senat , name by elector chosen by the peopl , should serv for life . 
 as expect , richard p. rifenburgh resign as gca 's chairman. pend the select of a new chairman , anthoni j. gumbin , hallwood chairman ; brian m. troup , hallwood presid , and jame g. cairn , presid of hallwood 's financi institut group , will serv joint in the offic of gca chairman , the compani said . 
 the exchang 's govern board includ 12 repres from the public , 12 from the secur industri and the chairman. board member serv three-year term and are limit to two consecut term . 
 mei also said holder approv an amend that limit director ' liabil for certain actions. a spokesman said mei sought the chang to help it `` retain and attract qualiti individu to serv on the board . '' 
 symbol inc. said it dismiss john w. gridley jr. as vice presid , financ , treasur and chief financi offic , becaus of `` differ in manag style. '' the maker of comput use for artificial-intellig softwar program said thoma f. farb , a former treasur and offic who has recent been a manag consult , will serv as act treasur and chief financi offic while symbol search for a successor to mr. gridley , who could n't be reach for comment . 
 sure in an organ of near 400 member , we have more who are capabl of hold offic . i have serv activ on the msb committe begin as chairman of the open meet last august . 
 best known as the indefatig , 73-year-old chief of w.r. grace & co. and as presid reagan 's point man on cut wast in govern , mr. grace has also becom indispens to prelat and popes. `` the church feel veri proud of peter grace , '' say the most rev. theodor e. mccarrick , a new jersey bishop serv on the board of the knight of malta . 
 but , he add , it also is more bombard by sophist lobbi techniqu , more confound by such press fiscal problem as the feder budget deficit and more obsess with polit fund-rais -- awash in campaign cash. mr. owen serv a singl , two-year term at the end of the nixon administr . 
 everyth was faith copi from england ; there was noth australian about it all except a few name like yarra and toorak and veranda , the onli major concess made by british settler to a sunnier clime . not that veranda were nativ to australia ani more than sheep ; probabl they were introduc by the militari architect john watt , who had serv in the west indi and was appoint to sydney in 1813 . 
 it doe not evalu the system , nor doe it consid import new trend . out of professor mace 's wide experi and extens research ( he himself has serv on a number of board of director ) , one would have had reason to hope for signific contribut to both of these area . 
 mr. hyde ( r , ill. ) serv on the hous foreign affair committe , and is the rank minor member on the hous intellig committe . 
 he made an econom studi of sort , conclud that augusta , georgia , could support a second radio station , and drove into town one day in 1940 with a coupl of thousand dollar in save . an offic of the augusta chamber of commerc put him in touch with some backer , and soon station wgac was on the air , with fuqua serv as manag and hold a small minor of the stock . 
 no decis involv life and death could ever come the way of the depart of extern affair . the conscienc of the men who serv in it were not strain as were those of the stake were hundr of million of live and perhap the world itself . 
 he was schedul to decid whether to retir or to continu at lower rank , for reason unrel to investig into his role in the arm shipment to iran and the divers of fund to nicaraguan rebels. adm. poindext was temporarili promot to three-star status while he serv in the white hous job . 
 today , mission station , as well as clinic and school , oper throughout the 350 islands. though most of the doctor who serv abroad necessarili make their plan far ahead , mani stand readi to go on the shortest notic when some crisi make quick action imper . 
 nevertheless he accept his destini , was inaugur on februari 18 , 1861 , for the six-year term provid by the provision constitut , and was wreath with flower by montgomeri women , while the press report , `` ... ten thousand heart beat high with joy , admir and hope. `` he would serv a littl more than four year . 
 the chanc are that the man who becom an fbi agent will stay on to make a career . among the bureau 's 6,000 agent , a total of near 80 per cent have been with the fbi for ten year or more and over 30 per cent have serv for more than twenti year . 
 technolog stock had a rough ride. trader said they saw some sell in these stock earli in the session , especi when the market tumbl quick upon news that mr. volcker declin to serv a third term as fed chairman . 
 they identifi themselv with the poor , and thus open eye to new hope. they build a communiti sawmil in alaska , serv as teacher , cook and driver on indian reserv . 
 a minut urg member to give up their slave was pass and a committe appoint to visit the slavehold individu and to persuad them to surrend their human properti . for two year john woolman serv on that committe , use a warm and gentl persuas that few could final resist . 
 in 1964 i campaign on behalf of presid lyndon b. johnson in three state , and in 1968 i not onli work vigor for vice-presid hubert h. humphrey in a frantic airplan caravan but also wrote his offici campaign biographi . in 1967 i serv as secretari to the pennsylvania constitut convent and help engin a revis which would bring pennsylvania into the forefront of state insofar as a modern , construct constitut was concern . 
 the other children were : edward baker ( mar. 10 , 1846-feb . 1 , 1850 ) , william wallac ( dec. 21 , 1850-feb . 20 , 1862 ) , and thoma or `` tad `` ( apr. 4 , 1853-juli 15 , 1871 ) . in the year 1847-49 lincoln serv one term in congress , where he had the distinct of be the onli whig from illinoi . 
 befor concentr on health-car manag in 1976 by start his own consult firm , dr. pesch establish himself in academ and govern service. he taught at the univers of chicago and northwestern univers , among other school , and serv as dean of the medic school at the state univers of new york in buffalo . 
 i did n't believ it , but ... `` no one had step forward in protest , and most of the men start brood about the incid onli after they left the compani or return to their home in the unit state . larri colburn later bump into some gi 's at fort hood , texa , who had serv in other unit of task forc barker at the time of my lai 4 . 
 this say that anyon who hold a govern posit has to wait one year befor repres client befor the agenc where he worked. so lawyer who serv as special prosecutor ( and mayb their law partner ) are prohibit from repres client in justic depart case . 
 `` my mother is go to make the round with me until i get use to it . `` corrigan had serv in the irish navi and after a while , want to see someth of the world , he join the american fleet . 
 mr. brodi will continu to be chief execut ; a successor as presid has n't been named. previous , futur exchang , unlik major stock exchang , typic have elect exchang member to serv as part-tim chairmen on a temporari basi . 
 all the same , recent occup of that famous hous have n't had what i would call a happi time. the last one to serv two term and leav with the plaudit of his fellow citizen was dwight eisenhow , and his first inaugur was near 35 year ago . 
 while the settlement on the connecticut were multipli , roger william , the salem cleric , was ask embarrass question of the massachusett bay elders. he dislik the idea that onli church member could serv in govern post . 
 in retrospect , dome , which acquir hudson 's bay oil at the peak of the oil market , paid too much. mr. maier join transcanada , a natur gas pipelin concern , as presid in 1985 after serv in a similar capac for a much smaller compani , bow valley industri ltd. , a calgary-bas oil and gas produc . 
 after most of the religi squabbl die down and mrs. hutchinson shook the dust of the new coloni from her skirt to tri again in new hampshir , the coloni was organ as `` rhode island and the provid plantat . `` william serv as governor for three year , leav that post befor jame ii took away the charter and tuck rhode island into the giant complex hand over to edmund andro . 
 `` everybodi is push him off the cliff , '' one senat said. the former cia offic assign by mr. casey to work in the arm network was a high regard oper who head cia oper in nicaragua and then serv as a special assist to the director in 1985 . 
 mr. amerman came to mattel as intern divis presid in 1980. he previous was presid of the american chicl divis of warner-lambert co. , morri plain , n.j. , have serv befor that in various market role at the pharmaceut and consum product concern . 
 the colonel invit me to drive home with him , he want to speak to me on urgent busi . the colonel had serv with great distinct in the french armi dure the war of 70 and had been wound at gravelott . 
 the 65-year-old nativ of chicago 's south side has come a long way. after serv as a navi torpedo-man in world war ii , his first job was as a clerk at an insur concern in 1946 . 
 hoover call special agent samuel p. cowley to his offic and told him to take charg of the hunt for dilling . cowley was a big man , thirty-four year old , and a former lawyer who onc had serv as a missionari in the mormon church . 
 canadian just do n't take to ventur capit entrepreneuri situat like american . `` howev , walsh , who serv in the electron div . of canada 's dept. of industri , trade and commerc , believ that thing are improv . 
 appar there would have been mani like us , so concern that we would have done whatev was legal to ensur the safeti of our nation . the knowledg dissip ani apprehens i felt about the proprieti of my serv as presid of my state 's elector colleg . 
 washington was the great-grandson of john washington , who had migrat to virginia dure cromwel 's regim . none of his ancestor had been devot to the militari life , although his half-broth lawrenc had serv with admir edward vernon in 1741 in fleet and land action against cartagena , a spanish port on the caribbean . 
 thoma bond , an independ option market maker , was unanim nomin by local director of the chicago board option exchang to serv as vice chairman and chairman of the execut committe for 1988 . 
 dr. debetaz ' statu has been place on the lawn in front of headquart , alongsid the driveway . a plaster replica is on display at colgat univers , where henri a. colgat , presid of the see eye from 1940 until his death in 1957 serv as a truste . 
 general food corp. name jame w. mcvey , presid of it oscar mayer food corp. subsidiari , to the addit post of chief execut offic of the unit , effect jan. 1. he succeed jerri m. hiegel , 59 year old , who will remain chairman of oscar mayer until may 1 , after which he will serv as a consult to the compani . 
 presid reagan had want mr. shad to stay on as chairman , accord to administr sources. but mr. shad , who alreadi has serv longer than ani of his 21 predecessor , declin , say he would prefer an ambassadorship or anoth post . 
 but the investor agre to give 193,827 northview share to the govern as part of his settlement with the sec. in a statement , northview said mr. fabiani will serv as act chairman and chief execut offic until it can find a perman successor to mr. boeski . 
 other contend that in practic , mr. oliv 's emphasi on self-regul by busi mean that hard ani enforc action are taken. `` for a real skeptic of ani govern intervent '' such as mr. oliv , `` there has to be lot and lot of evid befor he will agre to file a case , '' say mark leddi , a former deputi assist attorney general who serv in both the reagan and carter administr . 
 director also return william s. paley to the chairman 's post. he step down from that posit in 1983 , but recent had been serv as act chairman . 
 so he put the foreign offic , whom he trust , in command at the gate flatter them and make them gift of cost garment . a young scot , david butler , serv for pay as ensign on the anchor orel . 
 he wish you to teach him how you fought like that ! `` with kennart serv as interpret , the job of get the sled aboard the ship move more smooth than the new yorker expect . 
 to a larg extent it is the consum who bear the burden of the tax. the farmer , the manufactur , and the merchant serv as agent of the tax author , collect the vat from their custom and remit the appropri share to the govern . 
 your articl of jan. 14 say britain 's royal marin do n't get the respect they deserv , and that may be the case among those who know no better. but my observ from particip in exercis with them , back up without except by convers with generat date from the korean war to the present , is that u.s. marin would rather serv alongsid the royal marin than ani other outfit . 
 neither mr. hay nor howard weitzman , the lead defens attorney , could be reach for comment. donald bryce , a chrysler corp. engin supervisor who serv as juri foreman , said in a telephon interview yesterday that almost from the start of deliber dec. 10 , three juror believ mr. de lorean should be convict for alleg convert to his own use more than $ 8.5 million rais to develop his sport car . 
 gen. john r. galvin was name to succeed gen. bernard roger as the north atlant treati organ 's suprem alli command in europ and commander-in-chief of u.s. forc there. gen. galvin , who has been consid the front-runn for the job , serv for the past two year as commander-in-chief of the u.s. southern command , base in panama . 
 winter park polic said they are continu to search for a former philip crosbi employe who was in a posit to transfer corpor fund by wire. the compani identifi the suspect as john c. nelson , who until about a month ago serv as vice presid and director of financ for crosbi associ intern , a unit of philip crosbi . 
 they all had menial job and malcolm felt that elijah muhammad and his work could be further ahead if he had his son around him to help. suppos they would serv in administr capac form a cadr around their father . 
 it was no solut to the problem when in 1698 the king , decid there were too mani governor and too mani coloni , tie all the new england provinc , new york , and new jersey into one huge territori . the earl of bellomont , then serv as governor of new york , would assum the combin command . 
 col. gadd was part of the arm network. after retir from the militari in 1983 , gen. secord serv for a period on a special oper advisori panel use by mr. koch when he was at the pentagon . 
 `` one of our dearest hope is that frank can use his tie to weinberg to get arm control on track , '' one administr offici says. mr. carlucci serv under mr. weinberg as deputi secretari of defens in the first reagan term . 
 he was a report and an editor dure the stewardship of the late bernard kilgor , who help build the journal into a nation newspaper. mr. guilfoyl serv as commod editor of the journal and later as latin american correspond . 
 they kept themselv well protect from whatev might happen . `` peter winnen , an english major , had come to kent after serv as a forward artilleri observ in vietnam . 
 feder asset sale guidelin general requir that the secur be taxabl and sold without recours to the government. park benjamin , manag director for manufactur ' municip secur group , say `` in the near term revenu ( from serv as asset sale advis or underwrit ) wo n't be terribl great , but over the next two year the busi will be of grow signific '' as the feder govern sell more loan . 
 he propos that the cia purchas the equip , some of which , he indic , had been bought from the u.s. air forc origin under special `` proprietari arrangements. '' though the report did n't deal with the matter , intellig sourc have identifi gen. secord as part of a network of former air forc offic who serv as privat clandestin contractor for the govern . 
 congress has given him a commiss as major general an honorari rank of cours . he insist on serv without pay . `` 
 paul j. schierl , chairman of fort howard paper co. , was name a director of this member bank of the feder reserv system. he succeed leon t. kendal , chairman of morgan guaranti insur corp. , who serv the maximum two full term on the board . 
 it appear as though boyd was be made the scapegoat for chrysler 's collaps , despit statement to the contrari by townsend and by boyd himself . replac boyd was townsend 's long-tim proteg , john j. riccardo , a forty-five-year-old account who had serv as group vice presid of the u.s. and canadian automot divis , the third-rank posit in chrysler 's hierarchi . 
 interest parti are advis , therefor , to consult their termin supplier on this subject . ( mr. power is a partner in the intern account and consult firm of touch ross & co. , where he is director of servic to commerci industri . previous he was with univac and serv for 14 year as an offic in the u.s. air forc . 
 the report urg a grass-root drive to teach american their oblig to pay taxes. `` peopl just do n't feel guilti enough when they do n't fill out their tax return proper , '' say mr. calkin , who serv on the commiss . 
 perhap he was fortun , for few men live most of their live with an idol that remain unshatt . he becam secretari of war under the articl of confeder and then serv in washington 's cabinet , hide whatev inner man there was under a facad of jolli fat-man mirth . 
 mr. loeffler , a lawyer , was appoint in 1973 as truste of equiti fund after the financi servic compani collaps as the result of massiv fraud in it princip insur subsidiary. he serv until 1976 , when a reorgan equiti fund emerg from bankruptci law proceed as orion capit corp . 
 although mr. smith had earlier had two heart attack and a stroke , he has had to go to work part-time. the three top offic of diamond/obi were : barton greenberg , the 44-year-old chairman who found the compani in 1973 ; lesli a. lupovich , 35 , who serv as vice presid and secretary-treasur ; and gari l. mitchel , 51 , who start as a consult for the compani in 1980 and end up as presid . 
 custer hire her as his person `` mess-mol . `` an orphan hobbledehoy call johnni cisco serv as general custer 's tableboy , groom , and valet , and prefer sack out with custer 's pack of prize hound and hors rather than in a tent of his choic . 
 guillermo faura , command of peru 's river gunboat fleet . admir faura and i had been shipmat in the late 1940 's , when i serv on detach from the u.s. navi as gunneri advisor to the peruvian navi . 
 computerland 's mr. water said the warburg group 's announc is `` welcom news '' at the compani , which has had to contend with signific upheav in the person comput market as well as the worrisom disput between mr. millard and micro/vest. mr. millard former serv as computerland 's chairman and chief execut offic until septemb 1985 , when he step asid follow the micro/vest verdict . 
 `` i am non-viol , `` he says. `` last spring i watch the rotc fellow train , and i respect them for their willing to serv in uniform , as i had . 
 and yesterday , it earn the cigar-smok , 48-year-old mr. price the appoint as manag director for govern loan sale in manufactur ' invest bank unit. a 14-year veteran of the nation 's fourth-largest bank compani , mr. price has serv in a varieti of job , includ govern relat and as overs of the compani 's non-bank activities. befor join the bank , he serv in the nixon administr as special assist to the presid for urban and rural affair . 
 he was replac as chairman by robert slater , who is now also nation liberti 's chief oper offic ; he had been chief execut of john hancock mutual life until 1970 . later that year he serv briefli as presid of the falter investor oversea servic . 
 mr. scott resign becaus of `` a longstand prior commitment. '' graham kennedi , a senior execut of jame capel , a london stockbrokerag , and chairman of the london stock exchang 's quotat committe , will continu to serv as an investig . 
 these youth juri learn , first , to think for themselv ; second , that the law is the same for everyon ; third , to take respons not onli for their own action but for those of their youth group ; and , final , that there is no racial discrimin in a court of law. we have on our high school juri indian , negro , and white ; ani student who want to is free to serv . 
 `` it was high to the credit of the u.s. that her frigat were of better make and armament than ani other ; it alway speak well for a nation 's energi and capac that her implement of warfar are of superior kind : this is a perfect legitim reason for pride. '' u.s. naval polici dure the war was aim at lift the wrong and embarrass impress of seamen serv on american merchant ship , whom the crown claim as it own subject . 
 but the navajo want to be more a part of the unit state as well . dure the past decad , two navajo have serv in the new mexico legislatur . 
 eleven of the tpa patient bled , onli three of them seriously. dr. gold , who also serv as a consult for genentech , assert that further angina studi may lead to a role for tpa in prevent heart attack . 
 mr. gardner , professor of law at columbia , serv as u.s. ambassador to itali from 1977 to 1981 . 
 perhap the divis within the contra ' polit world are best illustr by the posit of mr. robelo. while he say `` reform are move ahead , '' he add that it is doubt he ll be abl to continu to serv on the director when a reconstitut uno legisl assembl elect the new seven-man board sometim this month or next . 
 it produc tv program about nuclear prolifer , popul control and the environ , and it allow mr. turner to attend board meet with jimmi carter and jacqu cousteau 's son. it also interest mr. turner 's former pilot and current femal companion , j.j. ebaugh , who serv as a liaison between the societi and turner broadcast . 
 at the time , the administr cite execut privileg for refus to give lawmak various intern epa document relat to the `` superfund '' program to clean up toxic-wast dumps. the independ counsel 's file contend that mr. mees , who serv as white hous counselor at the time , also play a role in the controversi and therefor should n't have the final word on the scope of the current investig . 
 mr. johnson has had the support of the board and of mr. sticht , so power a director that some say he has been unoffici chairman all along. this is n't the first time mr. sticht has been pluck from the board to serv in a larger role . 
 wyman-gordon , a maker of forg for the defens and aerospac industri , has been look for a new presid and chief execut sinc decemb , when 63-year-old richard bullock took earli retir for health reasons. sinc then , chairman joseph r. carter , 68 , has been serv as chief execut . 
 but reinforc reach the confeder in the nick of time from the shenandoah valley . the first fresh rebel unit to arriv were led by an eccentr mathemat professor from virginia militari institut , thoma j. jackson , now serv as a brigadi general under lieuten general joseph e. johnston . 
 gordon macklin has structur the board to repres all group that could have ani conceiv concern about the condit of the marketplace. i have serv with such men as bill mcgowan of mci and dick west , dean of new york univers 's school of busi . 
 at the school , i ask sever children what they want to be when they grew up. alway they said , `` i will serv anywher the revolut need me . '' 
 we have been on the project for six year , and the first brick has yet to be laid . mani compani now close supervis the manag of their pension and profit-shar trust invest , and if you have had experi in this field you might consid serv as one of the truste of such fund after retir . 
 it was occas in 1983 by the ascens of yuri andropov to the post of general secretary. no doubt awar of mr. ligachev 's reput as a strict disciplinarian , mr. andropov brought him to moscow to serv as a secretari of the central committe . 
 `` i do not see myself as an emissari of ani group or faction , `` he say , `` but i want to make sure that the corpor is respons to the broader communiti . `` catherin b. cleari , fifty-f , presid of first wisconsin trust co. , serv on sever board . 
 he becam an instructor at harvard in 1939 , an associ professor in 1945 , and professor of japanes histori in 1950 . dure world war ii he serv with the rank of lieuten colonel in the militari intellig servic of the war depart general staff , and he was award the legion of merit . 
 be state organ , they were subject to the order of the state governors. in the war of 1812 half of the militia , especi those of new england , refus to serv . 
 mark d. grossi , 34 , was name presid , succeed mr. baylor. mr. grossi , who former serv as execut vice presid and chief financi offic of transohio save bank , cleveland , also will serv as first american 's chief oper offic . 
 greyhound , which offer the earli retir option to 90 employe , earlier had reduc sharpli it total employ from last year 's 35,922 with the $ 350 million sale of greyhound line inc. greyhound line employ about 8,000. mr. nageott , a 40-year veteran of greyhound , continu as a consult to the compani and will serv as a director of greyhound line , now own by a dallas-bas invest group led by fred g. currey . 
 it was benton 's last night on the line . he had serv his year and was to be flown by helicopt to a rear area in the morn to be process out . 
 in addit , one lawmak sympathet to col. north said the panel also have learn that he use the travel 's check to give a `` bonus '' of about $ 1,000 to an associ , robert owen , when mr. owen was marri more than a year ago. mr. owen , who serv as a courier between col. north and leader of mr. calero 's nicaraguan democrat forc , resum his testimoni befor the committe today . 
 a montenegran like milovan djila , vukmanov has been a communist sinc 1935 . he serv as member of the suprem partisan headquart and central committe , as tito 's partisan chief in macedonia , and at war 's end as chief of the polit administr of the armi . 
 mr. heineman , 43 year old , has been manag partner of the washington offic of sidley & austin , a chicago law firm. he previous serv as assist secretari for plan and evalu in the former depart of health , educ and welfar and as execut assist to the secretari . 
 this old soldier of fortun , an honor graduat of columbia colleg , began his stormi career as an indian fighter on the midwestern frontier . kearni , whose left arm was blown off dure the mexican war , also serv as militari attach with the french armi in itali and algeria , twice win the legion d'honneur . 
 have contribut generous to european recoveri when time were bad , the american govern was natur anxious not to be left out in the cold now that they were good . in the presidenti elect of 1960 a young democrat , john f. kennedi , had been chosen to succeed the elder republican , general dwight d. eisenhow , who had serv two , four-year term . 
 separ , a senior administr offici said that the administr may decid this week on a new chairman of the feder home loan bank board this week. the top contend are danni wall , minor staff director of the senat bank committe , and philip winn , a colorado real estat develop who former serv as assist secretari of hous and urban develop . 
 mr. mcpherson would succeed richard darman , who resign in april to becom an invest banker. in the treasuri 's no. 2 posit , mr. mcpherson , who serv in the white hous under presid ford , would be expect to work close with secretari jame baker on intern econom polici , includ the third world debt problem . 
 this was a follow-up of an idea outlin by winston churchil at strasbourg , for a forc to be known as the european defens communiti , recruit from the nation of western europe. all the unit of this intern armi would serv under a singl high command , bear a singl banner , be arm with standard weapon and wear the same uniform . 
 i want to be use to the m. o. b. , not just win . my oppon has serv long and well . 
 whi should i go help the white man kill other dark peopl while he 's still kill us here at home ? `` i could n't help think about my son who is serv as a tank gunner in vietnam . 
 the compani has been the subject of recent inquiri by u.s. diplomat offici in europ , and is view with annoy by a much larger spanish militari consortium with a similar name in madrid. jose garnel , a princip in the lisbon compani , had serv as the portug agent for such major weapon maker as colt industri inc. , new york . 
 one of the ablest offic it has been my pleasur to know in recent time , lt. gen. colin powel , is the new deputy. i have no doubt he will serv with the highest distinct , yet it seem to me a disservic to place him in what will inevit be a compromis position. no matter that he is a man of the highest integr , certain to reject illeg action in support of even the most worthi of polici object , he , and the other militari offic who serv on that staff , will be confront with the need to make judgment about national-secur polici that can not be remov from the pressur of domest polit . 
 they ad that it is unlik anyth would be made public becaus of `` the delic natur of the case. '' the u.s. archbishop , who has serv as bodyguard and advanc man dure the mani foreign trip of pope john paul ii , has long been investig in connect with $ 1.3 billion in loan made by banco ambrosiano to 10 oversea `` dummi '' compani control by the ior . 
 if he has first admir the carriag that drive past him in the champs-elyse , on a fine afternoon , he will end by covet them . eugen had unconsci serv his apprenticeship by the time he went home for his vacat , after take his degre of bachelor of letter and bachelor of law . 
 onc a week , though , they were allow to sleep in the same room. saburo was wait for the octob twenty-sixth tenri fall festiv , and after he spoke to his mother there , arrang for the marriag with yakichi to serv as matchmak would be complet . 
 aspen special in full text comput storag and retriev of inform , includ the statut of the 50 state and relat feder code ... albert a. hazan , one of the founder of courier termin system , phoenix-bas manufactur of ibm-compat crt display termin and termin printer , has been name to the new post of assist to the presid of the compani . he had been serv as director of market ... ur system corp. , san mateo , calif. , has appoint joseph c. vierra presid of it ur data scienc co. divis . 
 mr. hammer is the paradigmat exampl of chutzpah ; he has overcom career obstacl that would have fell lesser men. a lifelong sovietophil , he has serv as a self-describ emissari between the u.s. and everi soviet leader sinc lenin , except stalin , whom he describ as an aw person ( nevertheless , between stalin and trotski , mr. hammer prefer stalin ) . 
 temuchin gain a reput for be particular tenaci and resourc in battl , and generous to his support . he serv for a period as a mercenari with the kin , fight against his tribal enemi and build up his own follow . 
 he design score of product in his 25 year at henri dreyfuss associ , new york , befor leav to establish his own practic in rural connecticut six year ago. he has serv as a design or consult to a who 's who of corpor , includ most recent general motor corp. , ford motor co. , phillip corp. and texa instrument inc . 
 battalion command ran their compani by radio. on the ground , where grunt spent a whole year ( marin , 13 month ) , green captain and lieuten gave order to line compani and platoon for six month -- enough time for a command ticket punch and an obligatori combat infantrymen 's badg , deserv or not -- befor serv the last half of their vietnam tour in the rear . 
 succeed him as presid of the pharmaceut and health product concern will be georg ebright , smithklin 's 49-year-old chief oper officer. mr. ebright will serv as oper chief , as well as presid , smithklin said . 
 edwin v.w. zschau , founder and former chairman of this maker of data storag and printer product , was again name chairman , succeed eugen r. white. mr. white , 55 year old , remain a director and consult for the compani , as well as serv in his other duti as chairman of amdahl corp. mr. zschau , 47 , most recent complet two term as a u.s. repres from the 12th congression district of california . 
 pakistan 's prime minist announc a new , smaller cabinet consist of minist who had serv in the govern that resign saturday follow riot in karachi . 
 there was noth to do but to have a swim at santa lucia at sunris and to return to the slum with a cool head but still trembl with fear. in the afternoon my offer to serv on the staff of the cholera hospit of santa maddalena was accept . 
 then captain glenn , a stickler for regul ; captain johnston , fair but easili persuad ; captain gregori , do n't know much about him ; captain jarvi , hard but fair , he came up from the lower deck as you did ; captain kersey , old man now , but still alert ; and captain macallest , he 's a bear if there ever was one . `` mereweth had met all of them at one time or anoth , and had serv two year as a second lieuten under kersey . 
 make music is onli part of the music director 's job. mr. wolff also serv as a public spokesman for the orchestra . 
 chairman john mckean made the announc at the board 's meet yesterday , but refus to comment further. other board member said they expect mr. mckean to serv out his term as a board member until decemb 1991 . 
 phil o'bannion come by on his poni then . his father was a sergeant too , but not like pa. pa had been a sergeant sinc the war and had serv with colonel padgett right on through the whole troubl . 
 he was a civilian , but his postur was militari . he had serv in two world war . 
 look what harley dann 's done with the office. `` `` harold , `` fitzpatrick said , `` he can serv as my vice presid for two term and then run for presid in his own right . 
 thieu 's report immedi set off anoth round of polit infight . senat tran van don , a lead oppon of thieu who also serv as chairman of the senat defens committe , announc on novemb 25 that he would conduct his own investig into the affair . 
 the coloni look to 23-year-old georg washington for protection. frantic letter from the politician at williamsburg arriv at mount vernon , ask if he would be will to serv on the frontier . 
 a six-year-old malawi girl may lead a breakthrough in south africa 's school apartheid by becom the first black child to be admit to a white school. her name is chipo , eldest daughter of the first black ambassador to serv in south africa , mr. joe kachingw of malawi . 
 as part of this overal strategi , oliv `` buck '' revel , one of the fbi 's execut assist director and a confid of mr. webster , was taken off the iran-contra investig week ago. mr. revel previous serv with fire white hous aid oliv north on two of the administr 's high-level anti-terror committe , and lt. col. north report ask him in octob to sidetrack the southern air probe . 
 the presid was worri and anxious and mani a night look forward to the peac of mount vernon. `` but you must serv again , mr. presid ! `` men exclaim , when he spoke of be through with his work . 
 a good deal of money was spent , but all that result in washington 's lifetim was the product of some cypress shingl . about this same time , washington was elect vestryman for truro parish , where his father had serv . 
 unpleas as the cut have been in the short term , ivorian seem will to make even more sacrifices. `` they are determin to stay on cours , '' say pierr bonneil , an expatri frenchman who serv as the chief financi offic of the blohorn group , the ivori coast 's biggest produc of consum good . 
 separ , geac said robert k. isserstedt , 45 year old , a director , was name president. he succeed william bearisto , 49 , who resign last month after serv as presid for about six month . 
 mr. ballantin is a princip with peat , marwick , mitchel & co. from 1983 to 1985 he serv as an associ director for econom polici at the offic of manag and budget . 
 when latendress was thirteen a neighbor priest took him out of the orphanag and rais him in his own presbyter in a villag on the shore of the lower st. lawrenc . he read all the priest 's book , he studi wood-carv and becam skil at carv imag of saint for the church ; he serv as an altar boy and when older he enter a seminari . 
 ducommun inc. 's w. donald bell resign after serv as presid for slight more than a year . 
 alfr h. mark is professor of english at the state univers of new york at new paltz and editor in chief of the quarter literatur east & west . he began learn japanes at armi school dure world war ii and serv as fulbright senior lectur in american literatur at kanazawa univers , japan , in 1965-6 . 
 this tribut to lincoln 's manhood , which came in spite of his freedom from the vice of the gang , seem to have been in part a recognit of his prowess in competit sport , especi wrestl , and in part a pure matter of person attach . in 1834 lincoln was chosen to the state legislatur ; and he serv dure four success term ( 1834-41 ) , first at vandalia , the old capit , and later at springfield . 
 each year the board nomin and elect a new group to replac approxim one-third of the member who have complet their term of office. the invit is issu on the basi of the need of the organ for specif profession and person compet in a given field ; member serv as individu , not as repres of their organ or institut . 
 messrs. hettleman and sommer serv on merritt 's board until the thrift collaps . 
 he himself stay with his father-in-law the king and had half the kingdom while he live and the whole of it after his death . there was onc a scotsman and an englishman and an irishman serv in the armi togeth , who took it into their head to run away . 
 mr. gate is believ to have testifi to a senat committe that lt. col. north mention an iran-contra connect dure an octob luncheon with mr. casey. former republican sen. john tower of texa , who also has serv as mr. reagan 's strateg arm negoti , and sen. malcolm wallop ( r. , wyo. ) , also have been mention , offici said . 
 instead , dr. bowen was allow to turn over the project to his chief of staff , thoma r. burk , a career civil servant. the two men becam close associ when mr. burk serv as execut director of a 1982-84 advisori council on medicar that dr. bowen chair . 
 how would you like to go out with me and look the region over ? we would go beyond where we serv with braddock . `` 
 in mani area , negro work for the armi as labor , teamster , wagon , cook , servant and laundress . fugit slave often serv as guid for yanke troop unfamiliar with certain region . 
 ridenhour was discharg and return to phoenix in earli decemb , 1968 , intent on do someth about the shoot at my lai 4 . he had serv well in vietnam , both as a helicopt door gunner and as a team leader of long-rang patrol group . 
 but they becam close friends. mr. goldblith , aid by mr. ayukawa , later spearhead mani of mit 's tie with japan and now serv as an advis to paul gray , mit 's president. mr. ayukawa , a promin japanes ventur capitalist , serv on mit 's board of director . 
 congress impos restrict on his salari -- and on the salari of the seven other commission -- after a critic general account offic audit found that mr. pendleton in 1985 had bill the commiss for near $ 70,000 in salari for what has tradit been view as a part-tim job. with four month remain in the feder fiscal year , mr. pendleton has left onli about 15 of the 125 day that congress has allow him to serv with compens this year . 
 women 's group are again push an equal right amendment. and a group of promin moder favor longer term for member of congress and permit legisl to serv in the cabinet . 
 the group has link to islam jihad , the moslem extremist group blame for the assassin of presid anwar sadat at a militari parad in 1981. although the charg were announc last week , the young offic were arrest juli 25 while serv in technic job in differ unit , the spokesman said . 
 mr. carberri also argu the onli insider-trad case the u.s. attorney 's southern district has lost : the trial of thoma c. reed , a former special assist to presid reagan for nation secur affairs. mr. reed , who serv in the white hous from 1982 to 1983 , was acquit last year of charg in connect with a stock-opt trade he made in 1981 as a privat investor . 
 those thing , howev , have becom besid the point , accord to guido bagotta. he is itali 's and , perhap , all of europ 's , lead author on footbal by virtu of his have done the play-by-play for five super bowl on italian nation tv , and serv as editor of `` pro bowl , '' an italian magazin devot to the sport . 
 the european parliament want ec govern to take an even harder line , with retroact dump duti and preemptiv tariff against new product like satellite-tv receivers. `` while we may practic free trade at this end , they do n't do so in japan and they do n't have ani intent of do so , '' say jame moorhous , a briton who serv as the european parliament 's one-man subcommitte on japanes trade . 
 the indict accus w. franklyn chinn , mr. mees 's former person financi advis whom he entrust with his famili 's save in 1985 , of conspir with other to defraud wedtech and to violat secur and exchang commiss report requir involv a 1986 stock offer by the company. mr. chinn , who serv as a wedtech consult and later as a director , was accus of help conceal the purpos of some payment from the compani to mr. wallach . 
 then he tore the treati to piec . `` gentlemen , `` he said , `` i had the pleasur of serv with your arm forc throughout two year of world war one . 
 william bernstein , execut vice presid at orion , dismiss specul that there may be a fight for control of the compani , say that `` these are not stranger to us -- we ve known all these peopl a long time. '' john kluge , metromedia 's chairman , and three viacom execut serv on orion 's board . 
 mr. mees said at a news confer that mr. reagan soon will issu an execut order give the board author over everyth from design intern drug erad effort to recommend futur budget priorities. health and human servic secretari oti bowen will serv as the board 's vice chairman . 
 he wipe away finch 's web of special assist in favor of a small person staff of trust aid , mani of whom he had work with or had known for year . perhap becaus he had serv at hew befor , richardson had no fear of the career bureaucrat . 
 caesar world , which last year turn down mr. sosnoff 's request for a seat on the board , retain drexel burnham lambert inc. to help studi the offer. although drexel tradit has serv as it invest banker , the firm also has repres mr. sosnoff befor . 
 he spent most of his time care for the make-believ ill of men who want time off . the boatswain had serv on a whaler , and tri without success to appli the tough rule of whale ship to the men under him . 
 arthur 's first case was a man with grotesqu swollen limb . `` well , my man , you ve serv in the armi i see , `` bell snap . 
 anoth son , w.j. timken , is director of human resourc development. the senior mr. timken had been elect to serv until april of next year . 
 he too father a whole dynasti of violin-mak . he serv his apprenticeship in vienna , and settl in pragu after some year of travel as a journeyman . 
 to replac these execut , nasso micha , senior vice presid for broker-deal servic of merril lynch capit market , and head of the firm 's clear oper , also will assum respons for the firm 's mortgage-back secur trade activities. mr. andr will serv as an advis to mr. micha , offici said . 
 thoma bond , an independ option market maker , was unanim nomin by local director of the chicago board option exchang to serv as vice chairman and chairman of the execut committe for 1988. mr. bond , 45 year old , would succeed gari p. lahey , who has serv two term as vice chairman , the cboe 's highest elect offic , and is n't stand for reelect . 
 lester einbend , 67 year old , was presid and chief execut offic of this women 's apparel retail until last year. he most recent serv as execut vice presid of the compani . 
 colleagu describ him as a activ conserv whose friend includ former u.n. ambassador jean kirkpatrick and norman podhoretz , editor in chief of `` commentary. '' he help financ gop maverick lewi lehrman 's abort run for governor of new york , and he serv on presid reagan 's general advisori committe on arm control and disarma . 
 he had a cast in his right eye which made it blind , and he was rejected. determin to serv , he succeed in join the merchant marin . 
 he retir in march 1913 to the campus of his belov yale as kent professor of constitut law . dure the world war he serv as joint-chairman of the nation war labor board . 
 mr. griesem , 56 year old , is presid of griesem stone co. of springfield , mo. , and head the postal board 's financi and audit committe befor his appoint as chairman. mr. coughlin , 46 , previous was senior assist postmast general for oper support and has serv as a region postmast general and in sever top posit at postal servic headquart . 
 he has declin request for comment , and it is n't clear what posit he would adopt on fed policy. mr. olsen is the lead candid to serv the rest of mr. wallich 's term , which end jan. 31 , 1988 . 
 ruckelshaus is a republican parti loyalist after mitchel 's own heart , a member of a well-to-do cathol famili long promin in indiana legal and polit circl . his grandfath had serv as a g. o. p. counti chairman in indianapoli , and his father , who was a promin lawyer in the citi , attend everi nation convent from warren hard 's time until 1960 . 
 the judg declin to discuss whi he replac mr. jacobsen , who had been appoint last june to an 18-month term. judg ackerman also name an associ truste , frank jackiewicz , a 45-year-old member of the teamster who has serv as shop steward , vice presid and secretary/treasur of teamster local 843 . 
 mr. carlucci has recruit grant green , a former aid from his pentagon stint , as execut secretary. he will name peter rodman , a current council staff member and former aid to henri kissing , to serv as counsellor , administr sourc said . 
 in 1879 he was made the first director of the smithsonian 's bureau of ethnolog , which he found . he had alreadi help to found the unit state geolog survey , under the depart of the interior , and serv as it second director . 
 sen. daniel inouy and rep. lee hamilton , the newli appoint chairmen of the committe charg with investig the iran-contra arm scandal , are as differ in style as the senat and hous in which they have serv for more than two decad . 
 he had led the littl pilgrim armi for more than thirti year and it had never been defeat . bradford die six month later , serv as governor almost to his final day . 
 the 63-year-old mr. sprinkel is presid reagan 's top advis on a wide rang of econom polici matters. a monetarist , he has serv as chairman sinc the spring of 1985 and befor that was treasuri undersecretari for monetari affair . 
 then , with the rise of the great kurdish warrior saladin , the tide turn against them . saladin was brought up as a boy among the seljuk of northern syria and later serv in egypt as command in chief of the armi . 
 for this offenc he languish in the tower for six week . later he serv in the english fleet under lord sandwich and distinguish himself by his braveri . 
 it million citizen descend from west african brought here as slave , indentur labor from india and china , french planter , spanish adventur , english merchant and even north american . escap negro slave who serv with the british dure the war of 1812 were resettl in trinidad . 
 moreov , bustamant and his advisor in guatemala citi wise encourag this refus by promis to upgrad the status of their govern in the hierarchi of town and citi rank and by grant choic appoint to the molina of san vicent , the barroeta of san miguel , and the carcamo of santa ana. in addit , bustamant sent two promin creol from guatemala citi to serv as peac emissari ; one of them replac the spanish-born intend , who presum had abus his author at san salvador . 
 howev , two fact need correcting. first , sir john cowperthwait serv as financi secretari dure 1961-71 , not as governor . 
 here he spent six picturesqu and format year ( 1831-37 ) , work in the store of denton offutt till it `` peter out `` ; manag a mill ; conduct a store with w. f. berri , who die leav a heavi debt ( $ 1,100 ) all of which lincoln final paid ; split rail and do odd job to earn a scant live ; act as villag postmast ; travers the counti as deputi surveyor ; and all the while read law , studi grammar , widen his acquaint , follow the trend of nation polit , and lay the foundat for a wide person influenc . it was dure this period that he serv in the black hawk war , be unanim elect captain by the men of his compani . 
 it is a mistak to place a militari offic in such a position. no matter how profession abl , a militari offic serv on the nsc staff must becom , in some measur , a polit animal. ( regrett , polit also make tight secur veri difficult to accomplish . ) 
 mr. huelskoett declin to comment. mr. walker most recent serv as manag of intern market develop for a divis of fmc corp. , the compani said . 
 at the former he set up william wollaston 's the religion of natur delin ( 1725 ) which inspir him to write and print a refut a dissert on liberti and necess , pleasur and pain ( 1725 ) , in which he present , clever for a boy , the current theori of necess . he return to philadelphia in octob 1726 , with mr. denham , a quaker merchant , in whose shop he serv as clerk , learn account and becom `` expert in sell . `` 
 son go off into the world , daughter to studi in europ , and other famili member to work in africa , asia , and the island of the pacific. our own elder daughter write from the rural philippin , where she and her husband and four son serv under a mission board . 
 presid reagan brought an experienc polit oper to the new white hous team by name kenneth duberstein his deputi chief of staff. mr. duberstein , current vice presid of the big washington consult firm timmon & co. , serv in the ford administr and in the first reagan term , where for two year he head the white hous legisl affair offic . 
 john live in upper montclair , new jersey . jack graduat from princeton univers , later serv in the navi in world war ii , and has work in various field of industri engin . 
 at least one of the difficulti wilcox encount the view that an execut 's retir reduc his valu as a director appear to be receding. a grow number of chief execut are look for men around sixty-two to serv as director from their retir until around seventi . 
 alleghani said mr. kirbi , chairman , and allan p. kirbi jr. , a director , intend to vote their share , about 21.6 % of the common outstand , in favor of the plan. the compani also said it expect that it current director and princip execut will continu to serv in the new compani . 
 of cours , there is anoth side to the stori , too . in seattl , four judg rotat serv six-month term in juvenil court . 
 dr. h. h. power has put all these thing and mani more , humor and tragic , into a book for our entertain . `` ( walkabout , melbourn ) in 1967 eduardo mallea began a novelist trilog , the first part entitl la barca de hielo ( `` the boat of ice `` ) . in this book one of the secondari charact was a man name adhemar riba who serv as a famili biograph . 
 mr. brant , the govern charg , pass some of the inform on to mr. clark , who is charg with make $ 453,000 in illeg trade profits. mr. brant is expect to serv as a govern wit at mr. clark 's trial . 
 messrs. wright and byrd have serv in congress sinc the 1950s , and they spent four year togeth in the hous . 
 my chief servic to the m. o. b. so far has been on the legisl committe , and as student divis presid . serv as student divis presid has taught me much about the m. o. b. and given me a good insight into it day-to-day oper . 
 moreov , industri sourc warn , demand for some opec oil next month may be close to nil. `` there is a crisi of confid '' in opec 's abil to maintain it price and product agreement , said nordin ait-laoussin , manag director of nalcosa , a geneva , switzerland , oil consult who serv as senior opec deleg for algeria in the past . 
 he previous was presid of lockheed-california. -- ben r. rich , 62 , who also will serv as general manag of advanc develop project , which general are classifi defens program . 
 anoth texan , economist georg w. roger , still is be consid , but `` it look like kelley is it '' becaus of the power treasuri chief 's back , an offici said. mr. kelley probabl will be nomin to serv the rest of mr. rice 's term , which end jan. 31 , 1990 . 
 we can support on the local level what the nation feder of the blind is do on a nation level . i have enjoy serv on the legisl and scholarship committe . i have also serv as secretari of the student divis . 
 for reason not entir clear , though washington 's knowledg of the countri and the influenc of dinwiddi are the probabl explan , braddock offer washington the posit of aid on his staff. his militari ambit were still aliv and this opportun to serv under a profession soldier appeal to him . 
 dant c. fabiani , who last week was name act chairman and chief execut of northview , will remain a director , the compani said. northview , an owner and oper of hotel , said mr. loeffler also will serv in the new posit of presid , which replac a three-memb offic of the presid . 
 some compani -- concern about their abil to attract and keep director in light of grow litig against director and the difficulti in get adequ liabil coverag -- have been adopt similar proposals. dun & bradstreet said , howev , that to date , it has n't had ani difficulti attract peopl to serv as director . 
 he was a rhode scholar and attend oxford univers in england for three year , where he receiv a law degre . dure world war ii he serv oversea with the 4th canadian armor divis and after the war was a member of the canadian war crime unit . 
 in his teen he fought with the night squad , then took charg of train underground offic . dure the isra war of independ in 1948-49 , he serv as chief of oper , and like to line the wall of his oper room with ancient roman map of his countri . 
 administr sourc said col. north 's boss , then nation secur advis john poindext , becam concern about col. north 's contra aid network in august and tri to eas col. north out of his role as overs of the administr 's central american policies. although col. north had serv as the administr 's chief liaison to the contra sinc 1984 , adm. poindext assign anoth nsc staffer to attend the cia brief for the presid in septemb , administr offici said . 
 mr. meng serv presid reagan as a special assist for national-secur affair from 1983-86 . 
 in 1974 , mr. owen was a vocal member of the hous judiciari committe that approv three articl of impeach 10 day befor presid nixon resigned. but in 1987 , mr. owen say he would n't have serv on the iran-contra panel , even if he had been ask . 
 the sleev were made of old famili lace , the veil of tull . mortim rodger was the best man and dick 's two best friend , larri hart and herbert field , serv as usher . 
 but oil specialist say the effect of the rift between saudi arabia and iran is like to intensifi later in the year , as the organ of petroleum export countri ' full confer in decemb draw near. inde , the vulner of the cartel could be `` somewhat exacerb by the confront '' between saudi arabia and iran , said jame schlesing , senior advis to shearson lehman brother inc. and former secretari of defens and of energi , who also serv as director of the central intellig agenc . 
 in 1822 a joint meet of the legislatur nomin him for the presid , and other state soon follow . he was also reelect to congress , where he serv from 1823 to 1825 , be again the choic of that bodi for speaker . 
 first citi 's problem underscor the sever of the recess in texa , and is a blow to the statur of one of houston 's found corpor families. first citi 's fortun have been tie to texa 's boom and bust , and especi in houston where the late judg jame a. elkin , who serv briefli as a counti judg , found the bank and a huge law firm . 
 mr. blicher , 42 year old , will retain the posit of chief oper officer. he succeed aaron a. gold , who will continu to serv as chairman and chief execut offic , the financi servic concern said . 
 `` how will you ever make a book from all that ? `` to conan doyl , the knight who serv under the banner of the royal plantagenet , and the bowmen they led , were like old friend . 
 anoth american who repres sever corpor in peke was harn pettus hoos , a los angel attorney . hoos came with impress credenti : he was rais in china by missionari parent , serv there dure world war ii , and speak the peke dialect fluentli . 
 mr. bijur is a vice presid of texaco and has been a director of the oil compani 's 78 % -own canadian unit sinc 1982. the compani said mr. bijur has `` broad experi in market , public affair and strateg plan , '' have serv two year as assist to texaco chairman john k. mckinley and handl sever special assign . 
 `` in elementari school we learn the name of the eight state which sent the most repres to congress and how mani there were from our home state then all that went down the drain by the new reapportion law . we learn all the presid ' name and date when they serv , but we never found out what made the good presid what way nor how bad presid get into offic . 
 the way they see it , if peopl are go to invest in hong kong , they may as well invest in taiwan. '' mr. chan , who serv on an advisori committe that help draft the new regul , said the reject of hong kong led to content between taiwan sec offici and invest advis who consid the coloni a lucrat market . 
 sen. leahi began by urg judg sentell 's wife and daughter not to miss the cherri blossoms. he told the judg , `` by all account that i have read , you serv with a great deal of distinct in your home state . '' 
 mr. fulton , 33 year old , is presid of close held fulton financi group , a pittsburgh-bas invest company. as co-chairman , mr. fulton will serv with the current chairman , william levi , 37 . 
 he is an associ professor at san fernando valley state colleg , teach exercis , physiolog , and scuba dive . he also serv as director of the human perform laboratori at san fernando valley state colleg . 
 with a show of forc the english troop overaw the dutch , stuyves capitul , and the red cross of st. georg went up along the hudson . new amsterdam becam new york , with willet , a leyden saint , as it first english mayor , serv three year befor return to receiv plymouth 's congratul . 
 whether she realli want them or not remain uncertain . the littl lame ladi who pass her courag life between a depress home and various club and societi for emancip women in which she serv as secretari or manag remain the elus sphinx of butler 's histori . 
 they had broken over that junior ministership , the first step on the ladder he knew she desired. pater did n't admir the minist and he could n't serv with a man whom he did n't respect . 
 gen. henri knox forthwith rais the question of preced , refus to serv if the general were rank accord to the order of washington 's publish list . 
 it member , elect on the basi of profession achiev , are main doctor and other health profession but at least 25 % must be lawyer , economist , social scientist and other nonmed professionals. in return for the honor of belong , member serv without pay on studi committe the institut set up to examin import health issu or to answer specif congression and agenc request for help . 
 b. dalton said mr. riggio , 45 , chairman and chief execut offic of barn & nobl , will take over leadership of b. dalton when mr. swenson leaves. mr. swenson , who has been ask to serv as a consult to b. dalton , said , `` it is import for the leadership to be in place when this import new junctur for the compani is reach . '' 
 what 's more , all the employe go to work togeth in one bus. caterpillar doe not place mani local peopl in posit of respons in it oversea subsidiari , nor is the compani particular interest in import foreign execut to serv in peoria . 
 they gave me a corner in the school paper for my humor and poetri , and my own pencil newspap , snap , was pass surreptiti around the school and into the home of my admir . pop serv his last session at the capitol that winter , for it was the begin of the end of nonpartisan leagu control . 
 pain was all enthusiasm , sinc whatev he might think of franc at the present moment , he was convinc that the real enemi to the revolut of the world was the govern of england. he told barer that he would not serv person as a commission , even though he plan to return to america at the end of the year . 
 oklahoma ! also invad the world outsid the unit state . compani sprout in europ , scandinavia , south africa , australia , and in everi pacif area where american arm troop serv in world war ii were station . 
 the text of in the begin is from the book of genesi . a mezzo-soprano solo serv as narrato , and the stori of the creation is told in antiphon dialogu between the narrat and the peopl , as repres by the chorus . 
 ordinari worker also particip in other manageri duti , such as help to supervis financi oper and quality-control measures. some even serv alongsid engin in the develop of new product machineri and techniqu . 
 joe hrudka , mr. gasket 's chairman and chief execut offic , said he will assum the addit respons of presid and chief oper officer. mr. hrudka , 48 , is the founder of mr. gasket and serv as presid befor name mr. braun to that job . 
 the compani 's reput was forg by william la port , chairman until 1981 , who was known both for hold the invest communiti in disdain and for his stern fiscal management. mr. stafford was hire by mr. la port in 1970 to becom american home 's general counsel , have previous serv on the legal staff at hoffmann-la roch inc. `` la port brought him into the inner circl veri earli , '' say a colleagu , and in 1981 , when john w. culligan becam chairman and chief execut , mr. stafford was made presid . 
 mr. moor , the 44-year-old son of the founder of this maker of industri instrument , was also name to the newli creat post of chief oper officer. as presid , he succeed e.g. rork , 64 , who will continu to serv as chairman and chief execut offic . 
 howev , when juror fail to reach a unanim verdict , they can tell the judg they are hopeless deadlocked. accord to the court transcript , the misunderstand came to light after judg cook dismiss the juror and invit them into his chamber to `` thank ( them ) for have serv . '' 
 pullman-peabodi , which is base in princeton , n.j. , was form as a result of the merger. `` he was up against an extrem clever adversari and he won , hand down , '' recal wilbur l. ross jr. , manag director of rothschild inc. , who serv as invest banker to peabodi intern dure the transact . 
 the first of these accid was the absenc from the kent campus of it chief administr , dr. robert i. white. just befor troubl broke out on friday night , may 1 , presid white depart for mason citi , iowa , to serv in his role as chairman of the board of the american colleg test program . 
 typic of the quaker work among the freedmen was that of cornelia hancock , a young hicksit quaker from hancock bridg , new jersey . cornelia becam a civil war nurs when scarc twenti , serv on sever famous battl field , and work among the contraband outsid of washington . 
 denounc and arrest , he was sent to prison. ( while there he wrote much of his finest poetry. ) a few year later , quat was reinstat and call back to officialdom to serv as a schoolmast . 
 two million american troop were haul to europ by the navi without loss of a singl life . other annapoli men serv in patrol boat , mine layer and arm yacht . mani serv at the forty-f air station in franc , and some earn golden wing for fli in war mission . 
 they both stood tall , men with wide shoulder and lean hip , young in year but season a rocki hard by the frontier. two year the older , del had less than six month left to serv with the cavalri , after which he would come to the wagonwheel to go partner on the stock ranch there . 
 mr. olsen , reach at his connecticut home last night , declin to comment. but it 's possibl , offici said , that nobodi would be name to serv out the wallich term becaus there would be littl time left onc the nomine had pass secur clearanc and senat confirm . 
 he succeed carl l. randolph , 64 , who is retir after 17 year in the position. mr. randolph will continu to serv as vice chairman . 
 the reason for the retir , which is effect jan. 9 , was n't given. mr. probst will continu to serv as special consult to unisi , the compani said . 
 while we can not at this time point to ani realli victori gain at this time , yet due to the sever pressur appli , no doubt , there appear some evid hope that the societi is undergo chang and improv , albeit with reluct . for instanc , there present are five blind person with possibl a sixth come up serv on their govern board , although none select by the `` organ blind . `` 
 most academi men saw action in the pacif where the unit state fought single-hand except for slight help from australia and the dutch . offic in the european theater serv at the invas of africa , itali and franc or were assign to escort duti on the atlant convoy . 
 guy f. atkinson co. said it walsh construct co. unit receiv a contract valu at about $ 80 million to serv as general contractor for construct of the symphoni tower offic complex in san diego . 
 they like his wit , charm , common sens and honesti ; he was shrewd but not canni , ambiti but not ruthless . in the past he had serv sever year in the illinoi legislatur and also went to washington for one term as a congressman . 
 mr. kuhn , who was presid and chief execut from 1967 to 1974 , and was name chairman in 1974 , had retir last may but remain a director. he will also serv as chairman and chief execut of the three oper subsidiari and a servic subsidiari -- jersey central power & light co. , metropolitan edison co. and pennsylvania electr co. , and gpu servic corp. -- and will be chairman of gpu nuclear corp . 
 the typic respons is for the director themselv to resign on innocu ground that will not embarrass either the compani or it president. none of this should be surpris if one accept mace 's explan of how and whi director are chosen , and whi they agre to serv . 
 retir industri employe and lawyer who have occasion repres brokerag firm would be transfer to the industri roster within three years. spous of industri employe would no longer be abl to serv as public arbitr . 
 she design entir home for women with heart troubl and other disabl , show them how they could keep hous in a wheelchair , peel a potato with one hand , make a bed on crutch . she was a person friend of mr. and mrs. herbert hoover , and when hoover becam presid she serv as a member of the organ on unemploy relief . 
 dr. arthur w. galston , professor of biolog at yale univers , recent had a two-hour interview with china 's premier chou en-lai . dure the cours of the interview dr. galston said that he had notic that there appar were still few women serv on govern committe . 
 befor assum his fed post last year , he was a senior vice presid at bank of america and taught intern financi manag at the univers of california at berkeley. he has also serv as chief of the financi studi divis of the intern monetari fund and is credit with an extens knowledg of intern econom issues. . . . 
 the convent unanim select jefferson davi of mississippi as provision presid and a georgian , alexand stephen , as vice-presid . davi , a west pointer , had serv in the regular armi and was a hero of the mexican war . he was also a brilliant orat and an aristocrat intellectu who had serv his nativ state in congress ( 1846-47 ) and the senat ( 1857-61 ) . 
 a regular elect was schedul for novemb , 1861. at that time , the voter would cast ballot for a perman govern senat , congressmen and also a presid and vice-presid to serv a six year term . 
 he leav for the hagu tomorrow. commission charl cox will serv as act chairman until mr. ruder is confirm . 
 in some neighbor island school , older elementari student take turn help keep the lower grade and kindergarten room clean. sixth-grad boy and girl serv as junior polic offic . 
 if the brightest stone lie in the deepest mine should i not dig so far ? where a man might be dispos to lead a regiment might he not also be content to serv in an armi ? 
 confid is a good medicin . back in colleg i earn room and board for a coupl of year serv as janitor in a home for old women . 
 `` it establish this institut '' as the largest in the south , and as it work it way out of the texa recess , `` we ll be abl to expand into other part of the countri , '' he added. mr. fronterhous will serv as presid and chief execut offic of the new bank firm , to be name first republicbank corp. robert h. stewart iii , interfirst 's chairman and chief execut offic , will serv as chairman . 
 they board the sled and glide eastward in silenc , past the moos jim had slain , and onward without stopping. the london sled led the way ; colin had join the new yorker parti to serv as guid in case they becam separ from the other . 
 odd is n't it ? i use to serv in a battleship . 
 after brewster 's death , when it was a question of name his successor as rule elder , the chice lay between southworth and thoma cushman , who had also grown up in the bradford household , and the old governor virtual made the choic himself by direct his stepson toward the magistraci . southworth 's younger brother , constant , prenc 's brother-in-law through marriag to anoth of the collier , also serv frequent as an assist governor in later year . 
 i want to say at this time that it has given me a lot of experi . as treasur of the minnesota organ of blind i have serv the total sum of 14 year and 4 month . 
 station in citi border the reserv often employ navajo announc to reach the estim 65,000 member of the tribe who understand littl or no english . one such announc , raymond nakai , becam tribal chairman and serv two term befor be defeat by macdonald . 
 feder spend on educ , for exampl , has increas fivefold in the past decad . when elliot richardson serv in hew as an assist secretari dure the eisenhow year , the depart administ 100 program with 60,000 employe and a budget of $ 15 billion . 
 despit denial , washington 's plan for polic the mideast cease-fir call for a joint american-soviet monitor effort probabl dure the crucial stage begin at the end of the 90-day truce ( in novemb ) . u.s. offici do n't even exclud the possibl of u.s. and soviet personnel serv side by side on a truce team dure this sensit period . 
 wayn s. smith was present at the dawn of the cuban revolut in 1959 , as a young member of the staff of the u.s. embassi in havana. from 1979 to 1982 , he serv as head of the u.s. interest section in cuba , the equival of ambassador in all but titl . 
 for the year , net fell 57 % to $ 6.4 million , or 42 cent a share. mr. kucha , 46 , an attorney and a director of the compani , had serv as chief execut of iomega in 1982 and 1983 , when he spearhead a reorgan . 
 member of the un famili not onli contribut thousand of ton of food for distribut through the fao each year , but also provid fund that enabl this world-wid organ to send skill technic expert to work in underdevelop countries. these expert serv in the countri request their help in much the same manner as the technician provid by our own agenc for intern develop and the peac corp . 
 the propos for a stand european secur commiss is contain in toward the reconcili of europ : new approach for the u.s. , the u. n. , and nato , a report of a nation polici panel establish by the unit nation associ of the unit state of america , releas on februari 2 , 1969 . chairman of the panel was theodor c. sorensen ; henri a. kissing serv as a member of the panel until his select by presid nixon as his special assist for nation secur affair . 
 in the memo , col. north also express suspicion that either `` schwimmer pocket '' some moni on the same transact , or `` there was a kickback '' to iranian officials. meanwhil , attorney familiar with the iran-contra crimin investig said that the independ counsel 's offic has ask for tax return of col. north and a close associ , richard secord , a retir air forc major general who serv as col. north 's right-hand man in both the iran and contra oper . 
 a nativ of elgin , illinoi , mr. nitz receiv his bachelor of fine art degre from bradley univers , peoria , illinoi , and his master of fine art from the univers of illinoi . he serv as art director of the turk head review magazin for which he also wrote some articl and collabor on other . 
 some bank observ express surpris that some member of the board , which now face sever holder lawsuit , were unawar of mellon 's loan-loss problems. `` if there are go to be loss , that should show up in the month financi review , '' said jerri mcafe , former chairman of gulf oil co. , who serv on mellon 's board between 1977 and 1981 and then on mellon 's advisori board between 1981 and 1984 . 
 if the new draft draw critic , it wo n't be anyth new to the commission. begin with a flap over who should serv on the commiss that delay it start for a year , run through critic of the septemb draft , and continu with the uproar over the death penalti , the panel has been continu tangl in controversi . 
 mr. siehl could n't be reach for comment. lewi t. lipton , 47 , who assum the duti of presid and chief oper offic last month , will serv addit as act chief execut offic , corvus said . 
 this organ , financ by the institut , would employ and itself pay , perhap $ 100,000 a year each a number of high compet profession directors. each would serv on sever board , repres all institut and their sharehold . 
 ill had drawn and sour the face , quicken the temper , and laid a mask of irasc over innat kind . a veteran of the sea , prebl had serv with distinct aboard a privat and ship of the massachusett navi dure the revolutionari war . 
 stanley tulchin , chairman of repris capit , was name chairman of the portrait photographi concern , succeed clinton l. byrn , who resign in june , the compani said. pca also said john grosso , former presid and chief execut offic of nimslo intern ltd. , was name presid and chief execut offic , succeed ronald a. norrelli , a manag consult who had been serv as interim presid sinc mr. byrn and two other top pca offic resign in june . 
 walter adolph robert , born in 1886 in kingston , jamaica , has spent most of his life in the unit state where he has been activ as a poet , journalist , novelist , and biograph . dure world war i he was war correspond for the brooklyn eagl and he serv as editor of ainsle 's magazin and associ editor of hearst 's intern magazin . 
 `` this was in the day just befor huntley depart the huntley-brinkley report , thus end the most famous team in the histori of news broadcasting. it had start in 1956 , when nbc had assign huntley and brinkley to serv as anchormen for the nation polit convent . 
 orion capit corp. name robert b. sanborn , 58 year old , presid and chief oper offic of the insur hold company. mr. sanborn was former presid and chief execut offic of new hampshir insur co. , a unit of american intern group inc. , an insur hold compani , and serv as an execut vice presid and director of aig. mr. sanborn succeed edward j. hobb , 55 , who resign becaus of ill but continu as senior execut consult to the compani and as a director . 
 i plan to go back to georgia to enjoy the birth of a new grandchild in august and general to have time to spend with my wife , famili and friends. '' mr. henkel , a 58-year-old atlanta tax attorney and real estat develop , was appoint to the three-memb bank board nov. 7 after the senat adjourn without act on his nomin , and serv await confirm . 
 the judg order the prosecutor to determin whether mr. deaver , after leav the white hous , `` aid and assist canadian offici '' or `` act as a repres '' for the canadian govern dure a meet about the problem of acid rain with drew lewi , who was then presid reagan 's special envoy on the issue. while he serv at the white hous , mr. deaver `` made recommend , gave advic and otherwis particip substanti '' in high-level deliber concern whether the u.s. should heed canadian request to take action to control acid rain , accord to a report submit to the court by the justic depart . 
 there is a strong consensus among scholar as to the merit of past justices. in 1970 , 65 expert on the suprem court were ask to evalu the perform of the 96 justic who had serv on the court from 1789 to 1969. of the 12 classifi as great , eight were appoint and serv dure the 20th centuri : oliv wendel holm , charl evan hugh , loui brandei , harlan fisk stone , benjamin cardozo , hugo black , felix frankfurt and earl warren . 
 he subsequ was name senior vice president-plan and financ , and then senior vice presid of the paperboard and packag segment. from 1974 to 1977 , he serv as deputi director of the feder offic of manag and budget . 
 `` as soon as he saw that i had a part in the case and was recommend it ? i ve also heard that he 's piqu about be drag in to serv on the committe . 
 timur die in 1404 , soon after the departur of the ambassador . his son shah rukh , who succeed him , move the capit to herat in khorasan , where he had been serv as governor . 
 there are probabl a few quaker in the conserv john birch societi , as well as the liber american for democrat action . though the friend are often in the news for opposit to war , mani individu quaker have serv in the arm forc . 
 mr. white , a 43-year-old econom professor on leav from new york univers 's busi school , is expect to win confirm easily. a democrat , mr. white previous has serv in both the carter and reagan administr . 
 jame pastoriza , presid of pastoriza electron until it was acquir by analog devic in 1969 , has join memodyn corp. , newton upper fall , mass. , as presid . pastoriza had been serv as vp , new product develop , and board member of analog . 
 dure the next ten year he grew familiar with the loot-pil quay of tortuga and the smoke of burn spanish town . have no money or skill in the art of navig , he serv in the crew aboard the buccan ship . 
 after the even battl , the north and south both use the name monitor to design a new type of warship . wooden frigat were still in use , but young men go into either navi serv in the strang experiment vessel . 
 mr. balog , son of a pennsylvania immigr coal miner , work as a chemist and a budget offici at merck & co. befor come to wall street in 1961 as a secur analyst and portfolio manager. in 1969 , he join the research firm of william d. witter inc. and serv as it chairman . 
 von molitor 's greet was as genial as his appear : `` it 's a pleasur to meet somebodi from the navi for a change. i know you serv in the u-boat forc . 
 `` you know lieuten maclellan ? he will serv as my `` friend '' befor the court . 
 mckean 's offer to step down from the post of chairman of the board of governor fall short of the mark , '' rep. ford said yesterday. `` certain , if he 's not fit to serv as chairman , he 's not fit to serv as a member of the board . 
 seek to cut it loss , it sold the coloni to the citi of amsterdam , retain the land on both side of the fort . the burgomast of amsterdam renam the fort new amstel and inveigl william beekman , of new amsterdam , into serv as governor . 
 in the stori , boast is impermiss , but the young american admit that sometim `` after the cocktail hour '' he would imagin himself a war hero onli to recogn that he was incap of brave deed becaus he was veri afraid to die. it is an astonish stori to have been written by a young american who serv in itali in world war i and -- both befor and after the cocktail hour -- boast , exagger and told huge lie about his exploit and his wound . 
 the writer serv as special assist to the chairman of the american bar associ commiss on profession . 
 a nativ of brooklyn , cafiero came to chrysler in 1953 when the compani acquir the auto-bodi busi of his employ , brigg manufactur . befor that , he had graduat from dartmouth colleg , spent a year in the postwar navi , and serv in various engin capac with ford motor . 
 a princeton-train mathematician , he direct a larg staff that includ about 450 ph.d. 's at yorktown height , new york . at headquart in armonk , a chief scientist serv on the corpor staff . that post has been held by dr. emanuel r. pior , sixty-thre , a note physicist who retir recent but who still serv in an advisori capac . 
 militari servic was set at twelv month but was extend to eighteen month in 1962 . at the end of 1966 the bundeswehr had reach a strength of some 460,000 men , of whom 98,000 serv in the air forc and 33,000 in the navi . 
 imagin you are with a group of student visit a lighthous . a scientist is serv as your group 's guid . 
 the empi famili 's connect to unit oklahoma stretch back three generat , and famili member at one point held 15 % of the bank 's stock. dure his tenur at unit oklahoma , the younger mr. empi , a blunt-spoken banker , serv as presid of the oklahoma banker associ , the state 's lead trade group . 
 but those familiar with the exchang say two candid who have been vy for the posit are william b. bradt , an independ floor trader , and stanley r. meierfeld , merc vice chairman. both men serv on the merc board of director . 
 messag left at the nation bank of sussex counti , of which he is presid , were n't returned. mr. rough , who is in his late 40s , alleg leak the inform while he serv as a new york feder reserv bank director from januari 1982 through decemb 1984 . 
 in 1910 burton wheeler was elect to the state hous of repres . he becam unit state district attorney for montana in 1913 , serv until 1918 . 
 `` those committe appoint have been run six month . `` `` so gordon will be serv until octob , `` said laden . 
 shearson confirm that thoma i. unterberg , the 56-year-old former chairman of l.f. rothschild , will head the group , and a. robert towbin , 50 , rothschild 's former vice chairman , will be co-head. mr. unterberg will also serv on the invest bank polici committe of shearson , which is a unit of american express co . 
 on both side , polit was a way of life . his father , joseph p. kennedi , was activ in polit and had serv as ambassador to britain . 
 as previous report , three execut depart dure the intern investig befor mr. long : joseph e. martino , vice presid , sale , of the compani 's beer unit ; john c. lodg , manag of nation sale promot event ; and michael a. orloff , vice presid of the beer unit 's wholesal oper division. mr. martino serv a stint as execut assist to mr. long and was seen by insid as his heir appar . 
 from the time of his graduat from west point , davi had fanci himself as a militari leader . like abraham lincoln , he had serv in the frontier skirmish known as the black hawk war , but , unlik lincoln , he had never been inclin to ridicul the role he play in that unhero episod . 
 the sex inform and educ council of the u.s. ( siecus ) is a voluntari nonprofit organ dedic to the establish and exchang of inform and educ about human sexual attitud and behavior , as set forth in the siecus statement of purpos : `` to establish man 's sexual as a health entiti : to identifi the special characterist that distinguish it from , yet relat it to , human reproduct ; to dignifi it by open of approach , studi , and scientif research design to lead toward it understand and it freedom from exploit ; to give leadership to profession and to societi , to the end that human be may be aid toward respons use of the sexual faculti and toward assimil of sex into their individu life pattern as a creativ and re-creat force. `` the siecus board of director is compris of fifti men and women who serv voluntarili for three year , but whose term may be extend by a second three year or by elect to offic . 
 mr. iosu 's suggest norm of a 12-hour teach load would preclud virtual all faculti research , impair the work of conscienti teacher , and lead to further reduct in the suppli of qualifi professor in mani fields. perhap he forget that professor must also advis student , serv on committe , interact with alumni and employ , and attend institut function . 
 we want textbook written by afro-american that are accept to us to be use in these schools. the organ of afro-american uniti will select and recommend peopl to serv on local school board where school polici is made and pass on to the board of educ . 
 we could distinct hear the sound of cri , shout and gunfir . `` jane had serv in the w. r. n. s . 
 but the firm had it dissent to this polici , and among them was don regan . in 1950 , then thirty-on year old and serv as bob magowan 's assist , regan wrote a memo strong urg that merril lynch should begin to sell mutual fund . 
 abdul broke into a grin despit himself. not onli would the sahib see buzkashi now , but he , abdul , would get a chanc to serv again as our chief interpret and not have to share the limelight with tawab . 
 if they re so reckless , whi do n't they get marri ? general featur corp. a washington bureaucrat who has serv under sever administr and has gone through mani investig move into a new home . 
 the next year he had to capitul , and in good time the name of thoma howland and prenc howland were inscrib on the baptism roll of the church . 3 but the strongest resist came from scituat , articul by assist governor jame cudworth and timothi hather . the latter had serv on the general court almost continu for more than twenti year . 
 wherev jazz is heard , it speak to peopl in a univers languag , instant and joyous understood. american jazzmen serv as invalu ambassador of good will . 
 bloc ballot and vote to win combin to put a polit label on the minor . the irish vote , the polish vote , the jewish vote becam visibl in the presenc of men serv in public offic . 
 the oregon case could go either way. the contest hay vote there had been cast by an elector who had forgotten to disclos that he was a postmast , henc a feder employe , henc inelig to serv . 
 true , the top nation secur advis should be a civilian , sinc our nation 's commit to civilian control over the militari is absolute. but there is no moral dilemma in have offic serv on the nsc staff . 
 he join the communist parti in 1944 and is said to have supervis the construct of the siberian branch of the soviet academi of scienc , home of the econom avatar of perestroika , tatyana zaslavskaya and abel aganbegyan. from 1965 until 1983 , mr. ligachev serv as first secretari of the region communist parti in tomsk , a grim siberian citi almost direct north of mongolia . 
 mr. barron also held the post of chief execut offic , which was n't filled. mr. kane , who has serv as a director of citadel and fidel sinc late 1985 , said he wo n't resign immedi as a partner in the san diego law firm of haskin , nugent , newnham , kane & zvetina . 
 and the iron work ? to hell with the iron work ! he might have said , but even more rich , for there was no one who serv under him who did not attest to his fine command of languag . 
 mr. hamilton , with his gray crew cut and flat-ton voic , is a minist 's son from a midwest river port city. although instinct measur in their polit , both men have taken on some of the charact of the hous in which they serv . 
 he work his way up through various bureaus that set industri and trade policies. but mr. watanab , who has known mr. kuroda for 18 year sinc they serv togeth in geneva , reject charg that mr. kuroda is anti-american . 
 re your commend may 12 stori , `` nonprofit group ' push for profit rile mani small-busi owner '' : as a small-busi owner who has serv on the board of sever nonprofit group and as a consult to both busi firm and nonprofit group , i am familiar with the competit among such organ as well as with govern agenc . 
 but that night i went to bed more convinc than ever that this danger colleg , this time bomb lodg near the heart of the nation , must be abolish . ani apprehens i might have had about the proprieti of my serv as presid of the elector colleg were dissip the next morn by an extraordinari convers i had with one of the deleg . 
 as report previous , the three execut who abrupt left anheuser-busch dure the intern investig are joseph e. martino , vice presid , sale , of the compani 's beer unit ; john c. lodg , manag of nation sale promot event ; and michael a. orloff , vice presid of the beer unit 's wholesal oper division. mr. martino serv a stint as execut assist to mr. long and was seen by insid as mr. long 's heir appar . 
 indian elsewher in the coloni were herd into plymouth and isol on clark 's island in the harbor . in spite of all this the cape tribe prove to be faith and veri use alli , serv both as scout and on the fire line . 
 airga said he decid to resign both post earlier to pursu `` person interest '' and to begin work on special assign involv acquisit and foreign sale for the company. peter mccausland , airga 's 37-year-old presid , whom mr. perkin last year design as his successor , will serv as act chairman and chief execut . 
 upon graduat in june 1843 , the best rider at west point request a commiss in the cavalri , but as there was no vacanc in that arm , he report for duti with the 4th infantri . he serv two year in missouri and louisiana , and in septemb 1845 join general taylor 's small but effici armi at corpus christi , tex . 
 the point is , they should not have been place in such a posit ; it is not good for the militari establish and it is not good for the nation. even though it might well depriv the nation of the servic of abl and devot men , such offic should resign their commiss or not serv on the nsc , an inher polit posit . 
 he succeed georg j. elli , 65 , as chief executive. mr. elli will continu to serv as a director and vice chairman of the bank hold compani . 
 hong kong 's chief secretari will serv as act governor of the british coloni until a successor is name for sir edward youd . 
 mr. duncan , 53 year old , current is presid of singer co. 's motor product division. he serv as presid and chief oper offic of murray ohio from januari 1981 to januari 1982 . 
 bankruptci judg complain that it is n't near as prestigi as other feder judgeships. unlik their district- and appeals-court brethren , who serv for life , bankruptci judg serv 14-year term . 
 her husband went to war . nobodi could keep that man from serv under general washington . 
 it is also prais for a respect 20 % return on equiti and a long string of profit increas , fail to increas earn onli in 1984 , when market activ was particular sluggish , sourc said. in one import benchmark of a wall street firm 's invest bank muscl , the number of corpor underwrit on which it serv as lead manag , the firm rank 10th this year , with 2 % of the market , accord to idd inform servic inc. first-rank salomon brother has a 14.7 % market share for the year , as of tuesday , idd said . 
 continent contend that it worst servic problem are behind it , say that sinc februari , it process 25,000 refund request associ with earlier peopl express service. the compani ad 10 special assist to the presid to serv as custom ombudsmen in it major market and increas the number of it consum relat depart employe to 150 from 57 . 
 more than 50,000 conscript are enrol everi year. further , everi able-bodi citizen between the age of 16 and 65 is liabl to serv in civil defenc , and voluntari defenc organis have about one million member , of whom 350,000 are women . 
 mr. mann , 57 year old , will fill a vacanc creat by the april departur of charl e. rickershaus jr. sinc that time , pse vice chairman dougla j. engmann has serv as act chief execut and chairman of the exchang 's board of governor . 
 one-third of the expans has come through acquisit and the rest by intern growth . ( anoth compani , bunker-ramo corp. , which trw and ramo form in 1964 with martin marietta corp. , now has sale of $ 255 million a year . to form the compani , a trw divis was fold into bunker-ramo , and for a while ramo serv as part-tim presid of the new busi . 
 rudolph a. nunez . the citat read in part : `` on 13 june 1966 sergeant nunez serv as point man for a five-man long-rang reconnaiss patrol approxim 50 mile north of saigon . 
 mr. kirkorian , 41 , also was name to the new post of chief oper officer. he former serv as presid , market and distribut divis , contel busi system , a unit of contel corp. , a telecommun compani base in atlanta . 
 mr. meng serv as special assist to the presid for national-secur affair from 1983 to june 1986 . 
 when the pilgrim offer to suppli these on credit , the bay leader thank them but still oppos the project , at length frank say that they `` had no mind to it , `` fear a violent reaction on the part of the pequot , 3,000 or 4,000 strong . veri well then , said winslow , who was serv his first term as governor of plymouth , did they have ani object to plymouth go ahead alon ? 
 for these reason , at least , we do n't think the u.s. got the best possibl bargain on behalf of the peopl of poland when last week it restor most-favored-n tariff status and reopen the way for more feder guarante credits. richard t. davi , a retir career foreign-servic offic who serv as the u.s. ambassador to poland from 1974 to 1978 , say the u.s. should have pressur warsaw to enact econom reform as a quid pro quo for drop sanction . 
 the newli expand board consist of 10 member of the ferruzzi agro-industri group -- which earlier this year lift it stake in montedison to 39 % -- and an equal number of director consid loyal to montedison 's chairman , mario schimberni. the member of the ferruzzi group on the new board includ raul gardini , who serv as montedison vice chairman . 
 martin r. pollner , corpor counsel for wedtech , said , `` it is clear that the alleg are limit to past conduct of certain former offic and director rather than the corpor itself , it new manag team or wedtech 's present operation. '' in washington , meanwhil , attorney general edwin mees testifi on capitol hill yesterday about his knowledg of wedtech 's effort to win feder contract in 1982 , when mr. mees serv as counselor to the presid . 
 last novemb , mr. parn , 45 , resign as chief executive. mbi said he will remain a director and serv as a consult to the compani . 
 much of an ethicist 's work is reassurance. `` frequent , the doctor has pretti much alreadi made his decis and , by and larg , made it right , '' say bernard gert , a dartmouth philosophi professor who has long taught and written about ethic with dr. culver and serv on the advisori committe . 
 `` as a matter of principl , i will not run on a deficit. '' mr. rumsfeld , 54 year old , left govern after serv as white hous chief of staff and then defens secretari in the ford administr . 
 she made speech , wrote articl and book , and help found mani organ . she was call on to settl labor disput and serv on chicago 's board of educ for sever year . 
 it was now time to swear in the substitut deleg and there was still no greenfield. i held a whisper consult as to what we should do , becaus no substitut elector is elig to serv unless he has written author from the governor attest to his credentials. in the back of the room i saw the round and beam face of sam frank of allentown , and i whisper , `` i 'm sure sam will serv if we need him . '' 
 by obedi , industri and scholarship , he rose swift in soviet intellig . from 1951 to 1956 he serv as an agent in the unit state while masquerad as a unit nation employ . 
 when he need to , he could be slipperi as ani eel . he had serv as person secretari to each of the two edwardian protector , but as each was decapit , this sli man somehow manag to save himself . 
 she was alexandrina de kroll , seventeen-year-old daughter of a nobl russian famili and the possessor of a modest fortun . the great author alexandr duma serv as best man at the wed and tsar alexand ii bless the bride and gave her a diamond ring . 
 grant , one of the finest horsemen to come out of west point , had a way with beast as well as men . there was someth in his voic that attract and calm the anim he love so well , while the men who serv under him remark upon the clariti of his command . 
 although a shift toward islam fundament would n't necessarili mean violenc , the govern worri that the small core of moslem extremist , who advoc violenc to chang the govern , would spawn new leaders. given the size of egypt 's armi -- about 450,000 men -- and it system of conscript that call everi egyptian male to serv in the armi or secur polic , it is n't surpris that soldier with extremist tendenc would appear . 
 daisi is a former highflier on the stock market that has had earn pummel by intens competit in computer-aid engin workstat , it chief product. investor confid was further erod last year by an exodus of top execut , cap by the abrupt resign of aryeh finegold , the compani 's co-found who had serv as it presid and chief execut . 
 `` i need to be in the busi world. '' and he has quick jump back in , consult for a compani near his valhalla , n.y. , home and serv as u.s. repres for a korean manufactur . 
 he use everi trick in argument and procedur in addit to his great skill as an orat . infrequ he appear as prosecutor for the state , onc serv under protest for a short time as attorney for fayett counti , but by prefer he usual act for the defens . 
 `` sgt . frank r. luchart ( bever , mass. ) while serv in the dental corp in vietnam , i was summon to the dental clinic veri late one sunday night . 
 the bus load of excit student left the campus about eight o'clock on this pleasant thursday morn . they were met at their destin by colleg student who serv as guid for the day . 
 the man appear to be alert and intellig , not one of `` the scum of europ `` as the member of parliament had onc term the compani 's militari forc . `` sergeant , how long have you serv in this area ? `` 
 fay 's drug co. said daniel a. herrmann resign as presid , and peter e. rhode as execut vice presid , to pursu their respect `` busi and person interests. '' the discount drugstor chain said henri a. panasci , chairman and chief execut offic , also would serv as presid until a successor to mr. herrmann is name . 
 it also assert that mr. walsh 's investig do n't have the power to unilater `` determin whether a particular prosecut will damag this nation 's foreign affairs. '' the suit also contend that all of the investig appoint by mr. walsh are serv without author , and it seek an injunct block all further investig by the independ counsel . 
 he was alway tri to be the first one . `` daniel e. zeigler of santa barbara , california , serv with calley 's platoon until he , zeigler , was serious injur in a mine accid in mid-februari . 
 robert owen , a conserv activist who serv as a liaison between lt. col. oliv north and the nicaraguan contra , was paid dure most of 1985 by the nicaraguan democrat forc , the domin contra group . 
 base on greas monkey 's 31 million share outstand , the compani has an indic market valu of $ 27.1 million. greas monkey said it hire ladenburg , thalmann & co. , invest banker , to serv as it financi advis . 
 the assembl , howev , elect him to the governor 's council in 1778 and in 1780 made him a deleg to the continent congress . madison took his seat in congress mar. 20 , 1780 , and serv until decemb 1783 . 
 in their book the polit of nation parti convent , author paul t. david , ralph m. goldman and richard c. bain , describ the attitud at philadelphia this way : the basic premis wide held among the found father , themselv most bred in an aristocrat tradit , was that there exist a `` natur aristocraci '' of men imbu with such qualiti as virtu , talent , wealth , distinguish descent , learn , and even physic strength. the problem was to devis a method for select `` the best '' from among this natur aristocraci to serv as chief execut of the unit state . 
 a major question is whether these moni were be surreptiti use to benefit col. north , who was overse the covert arm sales. ms. napier , who has had a longer associ with gen. secord than ms. corbin , often serv as a courier between col. north and the privat network . 
 mrs. mclaughlin , 46 year old , would succeed william brock , who left the administr in novemb to run the presidenti campaign of robert dole ( r. , kan. ) . she would be the second woman to serv as labor secretari ; franc perkin , who held that job in presid franklin roosevelt 's cabinet for 12 year , was the first . 
 he former was associ with ampex corp. and sandia corp. he hold a bs degre in electr engin from the univ . of notr dame , and has done graduat work in busi administr at the univ . of new mexico . he is current serv as treasur of the acm , and is a member of the institut of manag scienc . ) 42-45 . 
 `` what did he say ? `` said rumfoord. lili had to serv as an interpret . 
 north was describ as involv extens in aid the contras. a former state depart consult , in testimoni befor the congression panel investig the iran-contra affair , said he serv as a frequent `` courier '' between the former white hous aid and the main nicaraguan rebel group . 
 that 's the way you got to do it . `` nobodi in the unit , howev , admir medina as much as william l. calley , jr. , then a twenty-four-year-old second lieuten from miami who was serv as a platoon leader . 
 the stake includ 34,500 share purchas from nov. 20 through jan. 27 at price of $ 16.88 to $ 18.25 a share. the group , which said in a previous sec file that it want a seat on the medalist board , disclos in it most recent file that medalist manag has `` inform indic '' that dr. katz will be nomin to serv on the board at the next annual meet of the mequon , wis.-bas athlet , industri and leisur product concern . 
 mr. hall was presid of southern railway when it merg with norfolk & western railway in 1982. he becam vice chairman earlier this year after serv as norfolk southern presid and chief oper offic . 
 but if he had known about the connect earlier , mr. walsh acknowledg , `` i would have disclos it to the fbi '' dure the agenc 's background investig of him. a spokeswoman for mr. walsh said he continu to serv as counsel to crow & dunlevi , which mean he is n't a partner in the firm and doe n't share in it profit . 
 some , like roy wood , did n't even know the extent of the massacr until the next day . other , like charl sledg , who serv that day as calley 's radioman , saw more than they want to rememb . 
 most of the peopl i had written about were small time grifter , con men , hustler , assort thiev , and unlucki hors player . one of my constant reader had been an occasion thief who had onc stolen some jewelri from one of myron green 's client and then had offer to sell it all back provid that i serv as the go-between . 
 everi individu mention in the book was a real person. the two command under whom i was privileg to serv are call by their actual name . 
 from 1980 to 1985 , he was vice chairman of the democrat nation committee. dure that time , he led voter registr drive and serv as the rev. jess jackson 's nation campaign chairman in his bid for the presid . 
 dick contribut a well-stock score of twenti number . in addit , he serv as the conductor , hold a baton in his hand for the first time in his life . 
 at a simpl white hous ceremoni on march 9 , 1864 , lincoln promot grant to lieuten general , the third american soldier to reach that rank georg washington and winfield scott were the others. three day later , the presid made him general-in-chief of all the union armi , supplant halleck who continu to serv as grant 's chief-of-staff . 
 dr. gwinup receiv his medic degre from the univers of colorado school of medicin in 1956 . he serv his internship and resid at the univers of michigan where he subsequ undertook advanc train in the specialti of endocrinolog and metabol . 
 one of franklin d. roosevelt 's first act of economi was to pull wound and injur soldier out of the veteran ' hospit via the notori economi act , which result in mani suicid and much unfavor reaction. huey long had sought the governorship twice , and if he had been elect the first time he would have been too young to serv . 
 in island school , boy and girl , from third grade on , share in keep their classroom and school build clean. everi week , student in each classroom are schedul to serv as monitor on a rotat basi so that all take turn . 
 judg robert bork is the most qualifi american aliv to serv on the suprem court . 
 last month , mr. henkel did n't particip in the bank board 's approv of a rule restrict the amount of equiti invest that thrift may make. mr. henkel was appoint to the bank board nov. 7 , after the senat adjourn without act on his nomin , and he serv while await confirm . 
 `` leav ' em alon , `` he faceti advis his subordinates. `` they serv as a veri good provost guard , prevent straggl and desert in this man 's armi . '' 
 he was an import social figur ; he entertain celebr , politician and theatric star . his wife serv on the board of sever chariti and his daughter attend the best cathol school . 
 i write not as an author of book ; i write as one who has been deepli concern about the govern of this nation and of all nation . in 1960 i serv as a counti chairman for senat john f. kennedi and campaign for him across the countri . 
 over christma , peer and a few staff member flew to south vietnam , and the general made a tour of my lai 4 and also interview a number of vietnames offic and survivor about the massacr . he was accompani dure his ground observ by sergeant nguyen dinh phu , who had serv as an interpret for captain medina 's compani on march 16 . 
 after his humili in the cockpit , he was strip of his job as deputi postmast general. but he continu to serv as agent for four coloni , and when the newli form continent congress drew up a petit list america 's grievanc , franklin was ask to submit it to parliament . 
 it outlin the curv of her slender bodi in a way that distinguish her from ani russian woman tuomi had ever seen . this was fainna solasko , daughter of a russian woman who for year had serv in the unit state as a courtesan to kgb offic and visit soviet offici . 
 dure sever decad as a theater owner negoti term with studio to show their movi , mr. redston has gain a reput as an iron-wil deal maker. a graduat of harvard law school , where he still teach an entertain law cours , mr. redston help crack japanes signal code dure world war ii and later serv as a special assist to the u.s. attorney general . 
 hamid r. momayez-zadeh succeed the 64-year-old mr. sach as presid of the compani , which manufactur and distribut solar water heater and distillers. mr. momayez-zadeh , 31 , who was vice presid of financ , also will serv as treasur and continu as a director , equinox said . 
 steven robert , assist to feder reserv board chairman paul volcker , is leav the fed to becom a partner in peat marwick , mitchel & co. , the account and consult firm. mr. robert , 42 year old , serv as mr. volcker 's liaison to both the bank industri and congress . 
 attach to the card were color photograph of dismemb viet cong soldier stack in a neat pile . a militari physician who serv with patton said , `` in my experi , patton was neither the best nor the worst of the militari there . 
 `` i 'm the liber who can be trust , '' mr. mavroul said. mr. bennett , who has serv in congress for three dozen year , is base his claim to the chairmanship larg on senior , the veri principl fractur when mr. aspin ascend to the chairmanship in 1985 . 
 swiss and u.s. offici have said that one of the account they are investig was set up under the name of lake resourc inc. , a u.s. company. feder and congression investig are tri to determin whether mr. secord or other suspect of serv as middlemen in some of the covert u.s. arm shipment to iran may have defraud the govern or profit illeg from the transact . 
 what tragedi it is that they continu to be exploit by politician , ideologu , opportunist and the media. nonetheless , each man and woman who serv there and surviv has left irretriev someth of himself or herself togeth with the bodi of those comrad who lie in the soil of that betray and stricken land . 
 mr. empi said he sought to meet with the newli elect governor , `` but he is in a veri determin hurri to accomplish my removal. '' befor be appoint the state 's top bank regul , mr. empi serv as presid of unit oklahoma for 16 year , follow in the footstep of his father , who was also presid of the bank . 
 it 's not a practic that i would recommend. '' a former dravo execut who still serv as a consult to the compani , lloyd w. `` pat '' donnelli , had succeed mr. kelli and oversaw dravo 's waste-to-energi project contract . 
 what is remark , though , is that even some peopl he has toss out of their job speak high of him . fuqua spent nine year in polit start in 1957 , serv in the georgia legislatur and as chairman of the state 's democrat organ ; he remain a generous contributor to the democrat parti . 
 immedi her toe start jerk and the typewrit click , write messag after messag . she carri on a correspond , she said , serv on a committe of a magazin for the handicap . 
 the trio origin includ jame m. lyke jr. of houston , a member of the new orlean ship famili ; s. marcus greer , a houston banker ; and j. sayl leach , a retir texaco execut . leach die in 1967 , and was replac by paul r. haa , a corpus christi oilman , who now serv as foundat chairman . 
 some knew from the start that their term of duti would be a total waste. nobodi serious thought , for instanc , that a defens lawyer would let juan gonzalez , a prison correct offic , serv on a crimin trial juri . 
 more like is the possibl of a feder appoint , if nixon is reelect . `` there is no doubt , `` say a friend who has serv in washington , `` that they would like to find the right job for dan . `` 
 from his encamp he wrote : `` an offic fit for duti who at this crisi would abandon his post to election for a seat in congress ought to be scalp . `` this statement , wide broadcast , ensur his elect , whereupon he prompt resign his commiss , went to washington , and serv in the hous of repres from 1865 to 1867 . 
 the fbi also has come under attack from some lawmak for alleg fail to investig aggress a pattern of break-in involv group oppos to u.s. polici toward central america. nevertheless , retir adm. bobbi ray inman , who former serv as cia deputi director and head of the nation secur agenc , express both relief and satisfact at mr. webster 's nomin . 
 but then hitler came , and my father believ that not even war would be as bad as the nazi . in the second war he serv in the navi and , as my mother came from casablanca , he had her take me there with her when he went to his ship . 
 solid progress in area such as local autonomi and press freedom would be of immedi benefit to koreans. the u.s. also should continu to prais presid chun for his repeat pledg to step down and thus establish a preced for korean leader to serv their appoint term and leav offic . 
 `` in gabun today the fetish doctor call up the spirit by the sound of his littl bell , interpret to them the request of the live , and return with the revel of their consent or refus . a similar type of medicine-man now serv among the maori of new zealand and the pelew island , for when he goe into a tranc the ghost can speak through him with a low whistl sound . 
 hettleman and sommers. accord to the indict , mr. hettleman serv as legal counsel to merritt and , in that capac , `` know render legal opinion and prepar fals document '' in order to allow messr . 
 a good general . the best you ve ever serv under . 
 this sound improb , as the cremones master had to compli with veri strict guild regul requir that they should keep and teach an apprentic for a minimum of six year , as has alreadi been mention . even the argument that stainer began by copi amati 's design is no evid that he was in itali ; for in innsbruck , where he most like serv his apprenticeship , there was a splendid , princ court . 
 he was an associ with the milwauke law firm of quarl & bradi befor join northwestern 's law faculti in 1961. he serv as dean from 1977 until 1985 , and associ commend his perform as an administr and fund-rais . 
 `` while the armi was prepar it case against him , lieuten calley found himself a lawyer , georg w. latim of salt lake citi . the elder latim was high regard in militari legal circl , have serv for ten year on the militari court of appeal in washington and also on the utah state suprem court . 
 william tri to rule provid in a most democrat manner , with all freemen conven to sit as a court and five selectmen handl everyday affair . over the other town william coddington serv as governor , have jurisdict of the territori east of narragansett bay , but the brand of democraci practic fell far short of the ideal . 
 but that 's the least of it. what make the 37-year-old comedian the man to welcom the throng of 75,000 and to serv as emce for the pre-mass celebratori program has less to do with his size than his statur . 
 personnel. judg berg has induc experienc magistr from other judici divis to serv a term in traffic court , and lure honor law-school graduat into take job as assist prosecutor `` just to see how you like it . '' 
 we do n't know . of cours , we know better and you know better and then afterward , after serv his time as a junior dragon , he then becam a dragon . 
 the nov. 10 manag 's journal by thoma j. neff brought to light a crisi in corpor board room that is essenti invis to the public , yet unequ in potenti threat to the economi : the grow wari of serv on board of director in view of the personal-li exposur involv . 
 at last , he was remov from his post and went back to command the ninth corp , where he belong in the first place . lincoln select joseph hooker to replac him , a tough combat general who had serv as an abl divis command under both mcclellan and burnsid . 
 a respect girl , thunder the newspap , stay at home until someon offer to marri her . if she was unlucki enough to remain a spinster , she would live with her parent or relat the rest of her life , serv as unpaid housekeep or nurs to the younger children . 
 mr. nelson , 41 year old , will assum the chief execut 's duti that have been handl by chairman frank defazio , 62. he also succeed as presid b.j. walker , 67 , who will continu to serv as vice chairman until he retir in februari . 
 in a moment he has the answer : two small whale are run alongsid about a hundr yard off the starboard beam . `` they re sperm , `` the skipper add , for he has turn with an inquir glanc to the bos'n , an old-tim who onc serv a hitch on a whale-catch out of eureka , california . 
 jame wilson had made his compani a major forc in puerto rican real estat befor he turn to the develop of st. charl . and raymond nasher , a partner in flower mound , has been the develop of a string of success real-est ventur and has serv as chairman of the nation commiss on urban develop . 
 a jew on the suprem court has been a tradit sinc the appoint of loui d. brandei in 1916 . theodor roosevelt appoint the first jew to the cabinet and mani have serv sinc . 
 for year the kucchi in afghanistan had enjoy greater status than the farmer for the simpl reason that the terrain of the countri was so rug . they serv as the trader and carrier of cultur , and the farmer were more depend upon them than the kucchi were upon the farmer for their food . 
 for a reason then obscur to me the soviet name me as a satisfactori intermediari between them and the british-american author seek the return of one of these prison , margaret clitheroe. my own govern urg me to serv , an ironi i hope will not be lost if this is to be my epitaph . 
 barrio then select rafael zaldivar and marco aurelio soto to head the govern of el salvador and hondura respect . soto , a sincer liber who had serv as a minist in barrio ' govern , brought long-need reform to hondura and govern well . 
 he would not listen to ani one who belittl either gen . braxton bragg or that brilliant but unpopular jew who serv both as secretari of war and as secretari of state , judah p. benjamin . 
 but unlik his other south african compatriot , he held an extrem import job . he wrote a column , `` watch the world from accra , `` for the ghanaian time , and he sometim serv as an advis and aid to presid nkrumah . 
 the next phase start today round up control natur , give them their choic of two human alternatives. question public offici of everi sort and determin whether or not they were temperament suit to continu to serv under the new order . 
 the white hous probabl wo n't appoint anyon to serv out the term of feder reserv board governor henri wallich , who resign last month . 
 he was proud of his name , proud of his ancestri , but proudest of be a marin . a vietnam veteran , wound twice in action , he had alreadi serv nine year in the marin . 
 and secur consult report brisk business. mr. potter has been ask to serv as an expert wit in about 300 court case over the past 15 year -- half of them in the past four year . 
 repres of the equiti holder , who met with mr. kinnear yesterday , said they are still look for a signific minor role for sharehold on the texaco board. but denni o'dea , counsel for the equiti committe , said that neither he nor mr. norri is interest in serv on the texaco board . 
 the execut , who speak in a soft arkansa drawl , admit he find greater pleasur in shepherd a multimillion-dollar diversifi communic busi and telephon concern than in speechifying. mr. ford serv in the state senat from 1967 to 1982 . 
 about a year befor , the two of them had read about the work of dr. fred a. urquhart of the univers of toronto . aunt jessica had written in for inform and had join a group of amateur who serv as research assist . 
 his annual pay will remain the same at about $ 80,000. navi secretari john lehman said that adm. poindext will serv on the long-rang plan staff of the chief of naval oper . 
 after the communal arrang had been set asid , everyon will help one anoth . women care for the ill , serv as midwiv , and gather clam and mussel . 
 he wrote two book explain the background of the crisi and reveal mau mau method in detail . he serv on a committe to consid way of rehabilit hard-cor mau mau onc they were caught . 
 `` quit the contrari , sir , '' repli sir thoma briskly. `` i had the honor to serv as a midshipman under admir lord howe some year ago in the royal navi . 
 hyatt hotel is an affili of hyatt corp. , of which mr. pritzker is chairman. mr. foley , who current serv as braniff 's vice chairman , also will becom it chief execut offic , the compani said . 
 denham and potter . in a few year they 'd both be depend , hard-work men with famili , or mayb serv somewher oversea in h. m. forc . 
 i am also current presid of an invest club . in school , i serv as treasur of the audubon club and the student council . 
 he is , howev , 33 and slim , with tousel red hair , a pronounc nose , and deep set , serious blue eyes. mstislav rostropovich , music director of the nation symphoni in washington , where mr. wolff serv as associ conductor , call him `` one of the greatest talent of his generat in the unit state . '' 
 mayb now is the time for mr. reagan to elev a younger generat of leader to give his polici a coher , intellectu strength and momentum that would carri well beyond his presidency. mani of these peopl are alreadi serv abli and with distinct in his administr . 
 mr. gray also reimburs the region bank $ 100 for a golf excurs at the eleg greenbrier hotel in white sulphur spring , w. va. mr. gray has been chairman of the bank board sinc 1983 , and has often complain about the high cost of serv in govern , especi sinc his wife and two daughter live in california . 
 announc of the appear on the field of washington 's super-kings player , frank howard : `` here come the washington monument . `` wjz , baltimor caption on new york daili news photo show girl serv as batboy : `` these girl are diamond 's best friend . `` 
 gen. roger also will vacat his job as command in chief of the u.s. european command at the same time. gen. roger has held the two posit for the past eight year , a longer period than ani of his predecessor have serv . 
 by mid-1944 , there were more than 8,000 spar in the coast guard . they serv as storekeep , receptionist , mail clerk , telephon and teletyp oper , chauffeur , radio oper and technician . 
 at that point , texaco 's chief trial counsel , richard miller , secur the assist of a law firm here -- helm , pletcher & hogan. one of the firm 's senior partner , georg pletcher , also was serv on the judg 's campaign committe . 
 texa air corp. move it top labor relat trouble-shoot from it eastern airlin unit back to it continent airlin unit , which he left last fall. john adam , who had been serv as vice presid , human resourc , at eastern , return to continent in the new posit of senior vice presid , human resourc . 
 mr. yarbro also said that jacqu schlenger , the law firm 's former manag partner who had been accus by the state of give erron advic to maryland savings-shar , is still with venabl baetjer. former u.s. attorney general benjamin r. civiletti now serv as manag partner , mr. yarbro said . 
 some of our committe have been appoint and as time goe on other will be appointed. braxton tatum has agre to serv again as chairman of the public relat and inform committee. those serv with him are ann adkin , fred kelli , don sim , arnold culbersulberson , marsha phillip , and vera mcclain . dori beaver has agre to serv as chairman of the matti fold powel fund committee. those serv with her are elli campbel and exi hill . charl wood has agre to serv as chairman of the legisl committee. those serv with him are bertha merrel and vera mcclain . 
 he saw the creation of the afsc as an opportun to unit all the branch of american friend in a common servic project . it was rufus jone who chair the earli meet and who subsequ serv as either chairman or honorari chairman of the board from 1917 to 1948 . 
 mr. lindner , who also is chairman and chief sharehold of american financi corp. , an invest compani in cincinnati , succeed alfr martinelli , former presid and chief execut of penn central. mr. martinelli has been elect vice chairman of penn central and will serv as a consult to the compani . 
 although his father was veri reluct to do so , he apprent him to a carpent in ribe , as jacob insist that was the work he want to do . after serv his apprenticeship there , he went to copenhagen for four year to complet his train . 
 this propos is no arbitrari one . it author , who was director of the counterbudget project , is robert benson , who serv in the control 's depart in the pentagon . 
 norimasa furuta , a senior manag director who join mazda in 1985 after 29 year with japan 's ministri of intern trade and industri , has been name to succeed him. mr. yamamoto will serv as chairman , which in mazda and most japanes compani is the less-pow posit . 
 intellig sourc , howev , said mr. clarridg was sent to south africa by the late cia director william casey and that state depart latin america polici maker were awar of his mission. mr. fier serv with former nation secur council aid lt. col. oliv north on the administr 's restrict interag group , which supervis u.s. polici toward nicaragua while cia field offic in costa rica and hondura were assist a suppos privat contra aid network direct by col. north . 
 he say a like scenario is that mr. singleton will `` break it up into littl piec and give each to a bright young manager. '' mr. hanise expect mr. robert -- who was mr. singleton 's roommat when they were at the u.s. naval academi and still is his most trust associ -- to serv onli until he turn 70 . 
 presid cleveland ultim withdrew the order , but he oppos extend pension benefit to soldier , move the grand armi of the republ to an apoplect tone. no aspect of the presid 's life was spare critic by the grand armi , includ the fact that cleveland had not serv in the civil war but had paid for a `` substitut . '' 
 vice chairman j. l. robertson , is sixty-thre , a member sinc 1952 , and one of the noneconomist . he was train as a lawyer , serv for a while as an f. b. i. agent . 
 as a member of the provinci congress , he not onli help to ratifi the declar of independ , but also provid the guid hand which draft the constitut of the state . he serv until 1779 as chief justic of new york , interpret the constitut which he had draft . 
 after world war ii , when there was the greatest shortag of soviet men , onli 17 percent of the suprem soviet were women . onli 5 percent serv as peopl 's commissar , and in the highest council there were no women at all . 
 mr. bloom , presid and chief execut offic of jaymar-rubi inc. , succeed thoma d. gleason. mr. gleason will continu to serv as chairman and chief execut offic . 
 mr. schnabel is serv as the u.s. ambassador to finland. g. tilton gardner , morgan olmstead chairman and chief execut offic , said mr. schnabel , former deputi chairman of the concern , was on leav of absenc while he serv as ambassador to finland . 
 the feder aviat administr said it top medic offic , who has been accus of certifi pilot who were n't medic fit to fli , was reassign at his request. frank austin , 62 year old , who has serv as feder air surgeon sinc octob 1984 , ask faa administr donald engen to transfer him to allow the agenc to put asid `` the contenti medic certif issu which my activ have so unfortun precipit . '' 
 mr. ferri was vacat in mammoth , calif. , yesterday and was n't avail for comment. as previous report , mr. ferri , along with mr. amerman and former mattel execut thoma j. kalinsk , had serv on a three-person execut committe that ran the compani for a brief time after arthur s. spear announc in octob 1986 that he would retir as chairman and chief execut offic . 
 the church vote `` almost unanim ( 20 member present , all but 2 vote ) that they could not content communic with him at ye lord 's tabl . `` 25 on the other hand , deacon foster 's colleagu , ephraim spooner , staunch support the rebel , prove himself a clever negoti , more than onc obtain larg loan from wealthi tori gentlemen when the town was without fund to equip and pay it rag soldier . the local pastor , chandler robin , serv for a time as a chaplain in the continent armi . 
 the amount of time the man work at the plant , though not fulli oper , still count becaus some equip was run , mr. gordon said. mr. hall , who serv as a manag repres , say the board call a few other wit , includ the man select for the job who defend his qualif . 
 soon almost a general fight was in progress. i tri to place a guard out around our camp , but all were drunk and refus to serv . 
 that 's colonel washington . he serv in the war with the french rememb ? `` those who knew answer with pride . 
 in those day militia offic were no sinecures. all able-bodi men were liabl to serv , and they were not infrequ call upon for activ duti . 
 onc the immedi excit of the reviv was over , howev , these meet found they were unabl to maintain the religi fervor they had experienc without the help of a pastor. mani began to hire visit evangelist to stay on , or to pay a local farmer or teacher with a gift for the ministri to serv as pastor part-tim . 
 the marqui of thuringia , the count of guelder , the bishop of beauvai and verona arriv with their followers. at the end of septemb conrad of montferrat left tyre to join the armi , though he would not serv under king guy . 
 major corpor `` have invest a lot in their reput , '' he told report recent , so `` they ca n't afford to defraud custom '' or make obvious fals claims. `` my judgment is that consum are intellig '' enough to disregard such advertis , mr. oliv say , ad that five appoint commission should n't serv as `` arbit of nation tast and tact . '' 
 while he say `` reform are move ahead , '' he add that it is doubt he ll be abl to continu to serv on the director when a reconstitut uno legisl assembl elect the new seven-man board sometim this month or next. mr. robelo claim he ca n't possibl serv with the fdn 's mr. calero , who is expect to be elect to the new director , becaus of their recurr person clash . 
 he had three children and an energet young wife who ran a taut home . he had serv the citi five year as patrolman , two as detect , and was now assign to the citi attorney 's offic as special investig to mrs. van loon . 
 as ed s. miller , general presid of the 460,000-member hotel and restaur employe union , put it : `` the republican parti and big busi want to take from labor all the gain that it 's made dure the past seventy-f year . `` the use of an independ tripartit board had prove satisfactori to labor dure world war ii and korea , as georg meani , who serv on the world war ii board , never hesit to point out . 
 a scion of one of the wealthiest famili in the countri , the 49-year-old mr. rockefel has travel the world extens and live for three year in japan. he first move to west virginia as an anti-poverti worker , then decid to stay and start a polit career , eventu serv two term as governor . 
 in mani case , purchas of charit gift annuiti pay 25 % to 30 % more than they would pay an insur compani or brokerag firm for an annuiti provid the same level of income. but , say conrad teitel , a white plain , n.y. , tax lawyer who serv as the unpaid counsel to the committe , `` an insur compani doe n't educ youngster , heal the sick or save a soul . '' 
 the german-born mr. wallich , a former econom professor at yale univers , underw surgeri to remov a brain tumor a few month ago. despit some speech impair , he sought to remain activ in fed affair , and colleagu voic hope that he would be abl to serv his full term . 
 prosecutor alleg that home state had loss of $ 147 million from it e.s.m. investments. mr. warner , who had serv as u.s. ambassador to switzerland in the carter administr , face a maximum prison sentenc of 13 1/2 year plus fine and a possibl demand for restitut to the state of ohio for it own expens in make depositor whole . 
 while this quotat from tom stoppard 's 1967 play `` travesti '' is a bit mislead ( what would you call the conflict rage in afghanistan or cambodia : `` communism with the glove on ? '' ) , his real thesi is that there `` are lesson for today 's busi execut in militari strategy. '' mr. ramsey , now busi correspond for nbc news , first becam interest in draw those lesson while serv as far east correspond for the economist . 
 they memor fals stori of their live . expert in forgeri suppli them with fals birth certif , social secur card , driver ' licens , and card show they had been defer from serv in the american arm forc . 
 holder also approv a motion recommend that fermenta 's current board seek legal counsel to determin whether the compani should sue it former directors. the motion was offer by kjell braendstroem , who serv as fermenta 's chairman for the first three month of this year and is manag director of ab industrivaerden , fermenta 's largest singl holder . 
 while he could resign befor complet his term and the presid then in offic would appoint his successor , the successor still would be requir to leav the court at the end of the 18-year term to which the initi justic had been appointed. this would ensur that all justic would be limit to 18 year of influenc , direct ( by serv ) or indirect ( by influenc the select of his successor ) . 
 bradford had been injur a few week befor his elect and was still weak and in pain. he ask for an aid to serv with him , and isaac allerton , anoth church member , was elect as assist governor . 
 he irrit them by pay no attent . he was known as `` the general `` becaus he had serv in the armi rather than hire a substitut as was the custom among the young buck of the land gentri . 
 south african presid botha travel to black township and call on communiti leader to negoti with the white-l govern to end racial unrest. botha visit sebokeng , sharpevill and lekoa , where the township 's mayor urg botha to allow black to serv in parliament . 
 and nobodi ever seem to ask these vet a coupl of question that would put some credibl into their tear : what was their mos -- militari occup specialti ? more import , what platoon of what compani of what battalion of what divis did they serv in , and when ? 
 libbi moodi thompson , seventy-thre , was the youngest of the four children of w. l. moodi jr. and has been marri to her husband , clark , for fifty-two year . he serv in congress for twenty-two year , and they divid their time between lavish furnish home in washington and galveston . 
 his successor -- the youngest cathol archbishop in the u.s. -- is savvi at deliv the same messag loud to the crowd and the media. it is a skill archbishop mahoni hone while serv in the 1970s as chairman of the state agricultur labor relat board dure the vote over union represent of farm worker . 
 and he has denounc `` it messian idea of ownership of the world that is characterist of the american social fabric. '' mr. yakovlev 's view on the u.s. come across as more hard-lin than those of other soviet expert on america , such as georgi arbatov , director of the u.s.a. and canada institut , and anatoli dobrynin , the parti secretari for foreign affair who serv as moscow 's ambassador to washington for more than two decad . 
 separ , chairman fowler , who has been rumor to be plan to leav the agenc soon , was equivoc about his intentions. `` as thing stand , i intend to serv , '' he said at the news confer call to discuss the at & t price cut . 
 a successor has n't been named. mr. empi , a former banker who has serv as the state 's top regul for seven year , was accus by gov. henri bellmon of `` incompet , malfeas and neglect of duti , '' stem from a seri of stock sale involv the share of unit oklahoma bankshar inc. , a bank compani mr. empi onc ran and whose flagship bank has sinc fail . 
 we ought to be build compani , not destroy them. '' mr. inman serv as chairman of a high-technolog hold compani that is majority-own by mason best co. , one of whose founder , elvi mason , is a texaco director . 
 a spokesman said mr. severinson , who was former presid of minstar 's energi servic group , `` will be more concern with the day-to-day operations. '' mr. severinson had previous serv as chairman of amf inc. , which minstar acquir in 1985 . 
 although much of his success was built on deregulatori initi the fcc had made in the 1970s , becaus of mr. fowler the commiss today has `` never been the focus of so much attent and controversi , '' say upi report norman sandler , co-author of a book on telecommun policy. mr. fowler reject the idea that becaus the number of broadcast channel is finit , broadcast must serv as `` truste '' of the airwav in exchang for their licens . 
 nowher was this better explain than in craig robert 's semin 1978 articl in irv kristol 's magazin , the public interest. mr. robert , of cours , also serv as an aid to congressman jack kemp , as an editori writer for this newspap and as assist secretari of the treasuri when the first reagan tax cut was pass . 
 `` i hope , '' mr. hodel conclud , `` that the u.s. is n't so naiv and foolish that we fall for that kind of doublespeak. '' while serv as energi secretari , mr. hodel oppos canadian electr import into the northeastern u.s. , but the sale eventu were approv . 
 her statement fli in the face of conclus reach after a two-year studi by a panel of expert conven by the institut of medicin of the nation academi of science. the panel , on which i serv , includ repres from both hospit sector . 
 howev , a few colleg are consid the addit of dog breed and manag to their anim husbandri curricula. sinc there is no formal train in this field , the boy or girl interest in dog breed will have to serv an apprenticeship . 
 that case was part of a larger matter involv insid trade base on takeov plan alleg leak by employe of a new york law firm. a 1967 graduat of yale and a 1971 graduat of new york univers 's law school , mr. iason held an appeals-court clerkship follow law school , and then serv as a prosecutor with the waterg special prosecut forc for about 18 month . 
 `` this is just a person invest of his. `` fuqua too say he is concentr most of his attent on fuqua industri , although he doe serv as a gabl industri director . 
 a replac will be made but this can not be done befor the time of the meet of the elector college. `` of the twenty-nin democrat who had been elect to serv in pennsylvania , onli twenty-on would be with us . 
 congression investig believ that lt. col. oliv north use a feder bureau of investig agent as his link to a network of free-lanc intellig oper who work outsid of normal govern channels. investig said they have uncov inform indic that a new york-as fbi agent , whom they declin to identifi , `` serv as a liaison '' for a number of privat , loos organ citizen group that provid col. north with intellig data they gather while support nicaraguan insurg and a varieti of anti-communist caus in other countri . 
 i applaud mr. sterba 's article. as a retir marin who serv as a platoon command in vietnam , i was not impress by the film. i recent view it with two other retir marin offic who also serv as infantrymen in vietnam . 
 the white hous is strong consid two men from texa -- one an economist , the other an invest counselor -- for a seat on the feder reserv board , accord to reagan administr officials. the economist is georg w. dougla , 48 year old , a propon of eas govern regul who onc serv on the feder trade commiss and now head a consult firm in austin . 
 but henri nichola , a polit advis to mayor good , say the strategi could backfir becaus `` peopl know ( mr. rizzo ) doe n't care anyth about move. '' while serv as mayor , mr. rizzo also presid over a polic confront with move . 
 would you impos mandatori wage and price control to deal with inflat ? dure the korean war , i serv as feder price administr in main , so i know at firsthand the difficulti of tri to impos control when there are not basic shortag in the economi . 
 edward h. sondker , 41-year-old presid of la jolla bancorp , was name to the addit post of chief execut officer. mr. sondker also serv as chief oper offic , a posit that will remain unfil . 
 but the form of govern has not changed. the chief administr offic are three selectmen citizen who are elect to serv in this capac in addit to their regular , income-earn job . 
 the rest of my relat thought there was someth wrong with me in the head . all my uncl serv honor in world war ii . 
 the duke of burgundi took command of the numer french crusad who remain in outremer. conrad of montferrat sulk in tyre , becaus he would not serv in an armi command by king richard the friend of king guy . 
 `` the council cooper when they have all the fact , `` he say lacon . blum was born in 1911 in sarajevo , where his father , a hungarian jew , serv as a minor offici of the then austro-hungarian state railway . 
 nicaraguan rebel leader are prepar to revamp again the main contra polit arm , amid squabbl over whether their militari leader will accept meaning civilian control. alfonso robelo , a moder , say he wo n't serv in a new director if adolfo calero , a conserv rebel armi leader , get a seat . 
 thank , david aaron 's `` state scarlet '' ( putnam , 351 page , $ 18.95 ) is an except to the rule. even though mr. aaron 's resum is load with impress post -- he 's serv on the nation secur council , been a deputi assist to presid gerald ford for nation secur affair , and help negoti salt -- he know how to tell a stori . 
 when presid 's rule is n't in effect , the governor is onli a repres of the central govern and has no power to rule. siddhartha shankar ray , a 66-year-old congress ( i ) parti leader and former chief minist of west bengal state , has been punjab 's governor sinc april 1986 and will continu to serv under the new arrang . 
 ms. ride hold a doctor in physic from stanford. ms. ride , who onc said that `` be an astronaut was never a lifelong dream , '' serv as a member of the roger commiss that investig the januari 1986 challeng disast . 
 mr. hakim gave detail of the huge profit from the iran and contra arm oper that were bank for himself , gen. secord and thoma cline , a former agent of the central intellig agency. mr. cline , who serv as an arm dealer in europ for the contra arm sale , pocket $ 990,000 , accord to testimoni and record provid by mr. hakim . 
 he has been a director of duro-test sinc 1983. mr. mcgruther , 71 , will serv as co-chairman along with j.m. ross , 77 . 
 in midsumm of ' 61 , special order arriv at camp arlington from the war department. under the new reorgan plan , regular armi offic were unauthor to serv under volunt brass . 
 by win the democrat nomin , mr. barn is near assur of victori in the general elect in gari , a democrat stronghold. mr. barn 's campaign center on gari 's declin economi and whether mr. hatcher , who was first elect in 1967 , had serv too long . 
 `` then what are you do in the paratroop ? `` `` becaus i like to serv with peopl who like to jump . '' 
 he ll wait until after his successor is sworn in here the even of jan. 8. in the meantim , mr. mckernan , who serv two term in the main legislatur befor go to congress , is reacquaint himself with the state capitol , with it two stuf moos in the basement , and is think about how he 's go to fulfil campaign promis to bring job to far away town like jackman and calai , on the canadian border , and to control growth in southern coastal main , which is in danger of becom swallow by develop . 
 wallac look so strong that i thought he 'd sure pick up enough vote to throw it into the hous . and when the word got out that i was consid serv , men from all over , republican and democrat alik , sought me out and said , `` matt , you ve got to accept . 
 we can not go on ignor so much of the world in which we live . edwin o. reischauer , sinc septemb 1966 a univers professor at harvard univers , serv with distinct as unit state ambassador to japan from 1961 to 1966 . 
 georg fox , the methodist chaplain , was the eldest of the four . he had serv in the first world war . although he had not complet high school when he enlist and serv in the armi that first time , he was determin , when he came out , to finish his educ and becom a minist of god . 
 in world war ii he was appoint a command in the unit state navi medic corp , and , becaus of his special knowledg of china , was assign to liaison duti with the offic of strateg servic in chunk and shanghai . after the war he serv in an advisori capac to innumer mission and committe of the unit nation . 
 she was realli excit about that. he 'd even ask her to serv as an advisor on the board of his histor societi . 
 charli was call `` bird . `` some of his friend say that parker got his nicknam when he serv a stint in the armi , where recruit were call yardbird . 
 vinc lombardi believ in the use of comput analysi and manag to have ryan trade to washington to work on his play analysi system . lombardi also serv as a vice-presid of ryan comput servic . 
 pleas rest assur that we are not count you out by no mean and that your past contribut to the organ will not go unappreci . good peopl like you member who have serv well must never be shuffl into the discard as long as we can prevent it . 
 but accord to loew 's most recent proxi statement , mr. tisch 's contract was amend as of feb. 16 to reduc his salari to an annual rate of $ 200,000 for `` so long as he is devot a princip amount of his time to cbs. '' furthermor , the proxi statement say , cbs reimburs loew for $ 262,540 in salari and benefit for the servic of mr. tisch between sept. 11 , 1986 , and jan. 14 , dure which time he serv as act chief execut of cbs . 
 `` whether the blith countri boy off a farm outsid concord , or the fisherman 's son from gloucest , massachusett , return from guinea men or brute is open to conjectur , but certain it is that their restrict new england outlook would have been sharpli widen by their experi on the gambia or amidst the fli human head of old calabar . the author of black cargo believ that the condit of seamen serv on the new england slaver were better than those of seamen on european ship . 
 the panel alreadi have agre to grant limit immun to a number of gen. secord 's associ -- includ his busi partner , albert hakim. mr. hakim handl the financi arrang for the privat network that first assist the contra and later serv as a middleman in the secret u.s. arm sale to iran . 
 regard the recent biographi of j. edgar hoover ( bookshelf , march 5 ; letter , march 24 ) , there has been a steadi drumbeat of critic of mr. hoover sinc his death. your reader may be interest in the fact that in the fate 1953 period when the eisenhow administr was under attack by the right-w of the republican parti , i serv as chief consult to robert l. johnson , who had been ask by the presid and secretari of state dull to reorgan the intern inform adminstr , then in the state depart , and , with the help of congress , transform it into an independ agenc , now known as u.s. inform agenc . 
 mr. barker said magna is consid an initi public offer by the new unit. magna , which report sale of $ 1.03 billion ( canadian ) for fiscal 1986 , said it chairman , frank stronach , also will serv as cosma 's chairman . 
 the compani was acquir in 1952 by remington rand and combin with earlier acquir eckert-mauch corp. to form the nucleus of what today is the univac div . of sperri rand corp. in 1953 , a conflict between the former e-m group and the former era group led to the departur of some era peopl , head by william norri , a co-found with tompkin of era , to found control data corp. of which norri is still presid . dr. tompkin in 1953 join the ucla mathemat depart , serv as director of numer analysi research and director of the comput facil . 
 spous of industri employe would no longer be abl to serv as public arbitrators. the propos would affect about 20 % of the 3,000 to 4,000 peopl who serv as arbitr , most lawyer , account and industri profession , accord to sec offici . 
 a u.s. cardiologist was arrest by author in pakistan and charg with kill 13 people. the pakistani-born doctor , who return to lahor in 1981 after serv as a fellow at baylor univers medic center in dalla , has admit to nine of the murder , author said . 
 in pick chairmen , senat and hous democrat leader chose moder who ca n't be easili dismiss as bias by the reagan administration. sever wound in world war ii while serv in all-nisei , japanese-american batallion , mr. inouy fit the mold of an ethnic patriot . 
 a colleg dropout and self-describ airplan fanat , the 44-year-old mr. dubinski is credit with orchestr a seri of secret union meet -- dub `` oper stealthco '' -- that led to a formal propos to acquir the nation 's second-largest airline. mr. dubinski is `` the primari move forc '' behind the propos , say boston lawyer f. lee bailey , who suggest a pilot buyout of unit two year ago while serv as a counsel to the union . 
 they hate war all war , not just the one in vietnam. they are the 500 or so conscienti objector who serv in the armi 's medic branch as technician , order , operating-room assist , stretcher bearer and medic with line infantri or armor compani . 
 not even with the fbi . that mean you ve never serv in the militari ... `` 
 the reason for ani individu 's assign are militari need , person qualif and chance. my year ( 1966-67 ) in vietnam was spent serv with the 2/7 ( gari owen ) , 1st air cavalri as a platoon leader and then brigad staff offic ( mos 1542 , infantri offic ) . 
 siciliano , a former assist secretari of labor as well as under secretari of commerc , had repres manag in work out the last west coast dock settlement in 1966. day becam the spokesman of the busi group , larg becaus he is the onli busi member who has been abl to serv full time on the board . 
 administr offici have said that they are strong consid leif olsen , the former chief economist of new york-bas citibank , for that vacancy. mr. kelley , 54 year old , is chairman and chief execut of invest advis inc. , and has serv on the board of sever bank . 
 a gsa offici said mr. william was n't suspect of wrongdo , but that the agenc was concern about the appear of a conflict of interest. in the telephone-switch disput , at & t said mr. william serv as contract offic for a short time when the gsa alleg discrimin against it . 
 the fascin thing about our unseen guest is the guest himself . he is an entiti who call himself `` stephen , `` purport an american serv in the alli armi who was kill sometim in 1916 . 
 ultim , the debt is paid with fund generat by the acquir compani 's oper or sale of it assets. the 43-year-old mr. sherman , a lawyer , join church 's two year ago after serv as an execut vice presid at a u.s. unit of canada 's imasco ltd. , a tobacco and retail concern . 
 his term would end june 30 , 1989. becaus he was appoint to the bank board while the senat was n't in session , mr. henkel current is serv without confirm . 
 by appoint david karn , the republican governor narrow the democrat major in the senat to 54-46. mr. karn , 38 , is senior vice presid and general counsel of scoular co. , a grain and lumber concern , and is serv his fourth term as chairman of the feder home loan bank in topeka , kan . 
 polit control , too , is chang hands. gov. alexand , a republican who has serv the maximum two term , is step down this month . 
 mr. napl , 41 , succeed georg bartol iii , 65 , who retir as chairman. hunt said mr. napl will continu to serv as chief execut , and mr. fritsch , 55 , will continu as chief oper offic . 
 baker , 61 , a former senat gop leader , is expect to push the presid toward compromis and consensus on mani domest and foreign polici issues. iran provid an arm merchant with near $ 87 million while he serv as the key middleman for u.s. arm sale to iran , accord to the tower commiss report . 
 compar that record with those of the great 20th-centuri justic , we find again that holm and cardozo were better qualified. holm had serv with distinct on the suprem court of massachusett ; cardozo had serv with equal distinct on the new york court of appeals. five of the other six had had no previous judici experi ; black had serv briefli as a polic court judg in birmingham , ala . 
 as for the overal measur , onli rep. stan parri ( r. , va. ) oppos it. all but eight member of the full bank committe serv on the subcommitte . 
 he beg the governor to think over these word . in octob , 1783 , congress discharg those who had serv in the war , retain onli a small forc until a peacetim militia was organ . 
 hoodlum , fire by patriot and whiski , smash the window of german-own shop and often beat up the proprietor . no matter that german-american ralli to the color , bought liberti bond , serv in the arm forc , and remain steadfast loyal to the unit state . 
 like hart , john laci was a handsom man , be `` of a rare shape of bodi and good complexion `` . dure the civil war he serv in the armi as a lieuten and quarter-mast under colonel charl gerard , later earl of macclesfield . 
 the announc were made after the close of trading. nippon life also would be entitl to two seat on the shearson board , and a repres will serv as an `` advis '' to the american express board , the compani said . 
 in 1948 , when it came time for the republican elector of michigan to conven in lans , onli thirteen of the nineteen bother to show. accord to custom , offici scurri through the capitol look for anyon who would serv , and they came upon a mr. j. j. levi of royal oak , who was duli sworn . 
 grace had sold the home quarter busi for about $ 10 million to a manag group includ bernard kossar , then-chairman and chief execut offic , and frank doczi , presid and chief oper officer. heching said mr. doczi will continu as presid and mr. kossar will serv as a consult to home quarter , which is base in virginia beach , va . 
 under mr. dee , smithklin becam a leader in the prescript drug market. dure the decad he serv as chief execut , sale grew to $ 2.6 billion from $ 402 million , aid great by the anti-ulc drug tagamet . 
 it was onli a small ship in the 34th mine-sweep flotilla , base in den helder , a key port on the dutch coast . but i becam acquaint with death while serv with this veri activ flotilla . 
 the person chosen to fill this posit was betti jean landreth layton , daughter of mr. and mrs. eugen b. landreth of talladega . in addit to the duti connect with the area abov , betti act as public relat person for the program for except children and youth , and serv on various committe for the state depart of educ . 
 mr. mcfarland , the 56-year-old former vice presid , oper , of placer u.s. , succeed alan g. horton , 62 , who plan to retir may 1. mr. horton will serv in a consult 's role as vice chairman of placer u.s. until his retir becom effect , the compani said . 
 if this is the case , it follow that what was be honor at gettysburg was devot to the nation . if this is the case , it follow that what was honor at gettysburg was not the ultim purpos of the war so much as the devot of those who serv . 
 without paus to examin it , he said to wong , `` is there ani way that i could see the hoppo when your grandfath call upon him ? '' even the inscrut wong show surpris at the question , then laugh , `` if you could becom chines , sah , you might serv as one of my grandfath 's retinu accompani him to the audienc . '' 
 the shaman 's or medicin man 's main job in most tribe is to diagnos and cure diseas . he is often , howev , a jack-of-all-trad , at one time or anoth serv as soothsay , hypnotist , teacher , weather prophet , chief , scientist , lawyer , and priest . 
 the futur will almost certain see an expand role for the profession director . usual a retir execut , the profession director serv on the board of a half dozen or more compani . 
 but onc the volunt were accept for what they were , the timid call for their help becam a roar heard round the world . in less than four year the peac corp has pick from 100,000 applic 10,000 volunt now in train or who are serv oversea in 46 countri . 
 the man who train the first marin to land on guadalcan was a member of the class of 1912 , daniel e. barbey , who as an admir later command amphibi forc in the southwest pacif . to the men serv under him he was `` uncl dan , the amphibi man . `` 
 he has n't been a member of the board 's execut committe , though he will becom one now. mr. hugel has been associ with mr. johnson longer than most other rjr director , howev , have serv on nabisco brand inc. 's board from 1978 until the compani was acquir by rjr in 1985 . 
 i 'm forty-nine. i believ a chief execut should not serv too long . 
 the sultan and their minist had built mani mosqu in istanbul sinc the time of the conquest , but suleyman the magnific , with the wealth of the empir at his dispos , was the greatest builder of all , and his royal architect , sinan , was a man of genius . sinan had begun his career as a soldier in the sultan 's armi and serv as militari engin and bridgebuild . 
 his parent were sympathet to his problem . charl , who was serv an apprenticeship with a hartford engrav , was glad to have his roommat back . 
 but befor i can resum my natur form and take possess of the belong of my forefath , you must go out into the world and take servic as a maidserv . `` the young princess consent at onc , and for a whole year she serv as a maid . 
 also , member must pay themselv 25 cent an hour for their labor on assembl line , and a ten-perc commiss on sales. in order to be elig to serv on the board of director , each compani member must buy one share of stock . 
 north 's credibl come under question. the former nsc aid fals claim that he serv two tour in vietnam and that he was a pre-m student befor enter the naval academi . 
 dure my last year in high school i pass the rigid test requir for admiss to the naval academi . thereaft i serv my compulsori term with the nation labor servic , regul mountain stream and build road . 
 i return to my boat to check the progress of work , which i expect to be finish in four day . as i board u-953 , the chief , who had serv under marbach , call me into the bow torpedo room . 
 he will remain a director and chairman of the board 's financ committee. mr. durham , who join the compani in 1967 , has serv as presid and chief oper offic sinc jan. 1 , 1985 . 
 andro is often depict as a ruthless agent of royal power , and he did do his best to execut his orders. at the same time , howev , he establish a system for the defens of the coloni against the french and the indian , build fort and rais troop to serv on the border . 
 mr. khashoggi refus to discuss his busi deal with the wall street journal. neither canadian could be reach for comment , and the swami -- who serv as mr. khashoggi 's `` spiritu advis , '' accord to one of the saudi 's former associ -- was said to be `` somewher in europ . '' 
 they are : -- harold t. bowl , 52 year old , who also will serv as general manag of the unit 's ontario , calif. , divis . 
 but the white hous is disappoint that other are still held. dure the summer , the contra begin receiv more arm via a privat air transport system report set up with the help of a compani run by retir air forc maj. gen. richard secord , a veteran of covert action who had work with lt. col. north and serv as mr. weinberg 's mideast polici aid . 
 what , perhap , would happen inadvert in the begin becam routin . terri reid of fond du lac , wisconsin , spent much of 1968 serv with the 11th brigad of the amer divis near chu lai , the divis headquart a few mile north of quang ngai citi . 
 mr. casey , now hospit with pneumonia after surgeri earlier this year for the remov of a malign brain tumor , is n't like to testifi , but other cia offic are expect to appear. gen. secord 's busi partner , albert hakim , an iranian-american with past tie to the cia , serv as one of the network 's princip financi manag . 
 the packag reflect ambival in the reagan administr over the competit issue. michael porter of the harvard busi school , who serv on the presid 's competit commiss , say that `` instinct and intuit , the administr believ : a ) there is no problem ; and b ) if there is a problem , it 's essenti a short-term problem base on macroeconom factor like the valu of the dollar and high interest rate ; and c ) even if there is a problem , there is no role for govern '' in solv it . 
 fri had work with peter jefferson and knew the wilderness. washington was pleas to serv under him . 
 `` a lot of quantiti , that 's for sure. but after rasmussen , rhoden and righetti , you ll have to see me later about the qualiti , '' say lopat , who scout the nation leagu for the team as well as serv as one of eight coach the yank have assembl to supervis their pitcher here . 
 some valuabl charact are about to be lost to the hous of repres of their own choice. i fear onc that this would be the case with mr. smith , of your state ; but i believ his present intent is rather to continu to serv . 
 the first offic of the guild were : eleanor harrison , vangi larson , ethel weinholdt and louis seaver. they were elect for one year , where now they serv for a two-year term . 
 mr. stolz , the new chief of cia covert oper , join the cia in 1950 after he was graduat from amherst colleg , which also is mr. webster 's alma mater. he serv under cover as a state depart polit offic in a number of european capit , includ moscow ; rome ; frankfurt , west germani ; and sofia , bulgaria. he also serv as chief of the cia 's european oper divis and as the agenc 's chief liaison with britain 's intellig servic befor he retir . 
 the committe also includ matthew p. dean , 56 , vice chairman in charg of operations. stephen kovac , 62 , will serv as chairman of the board in a nonexecut capac . 
 g. barri mcmennamin was name publish , effect jan. 1. he succeed crocker snow jr. , who will continu to serv as presid and editor-in-chief of the privat held month . 
 prior to that , he was execut vice presid of the equip group of compugraph corp. in wilmington , mass. mr. stern , 64 , serv as chairman sinc gtech was found seven year ago . 
 congratul ! mr. brewer is now serv as presid of the middl tennesse interscholast associ and the tennesse interscholast associ . 
 blair had chosen john muckler , ranger coordin of player personnel , as his successor on the bench . muckler had been groom in the minnesota organ for a year , serv as general manag and coach of memphi in the central leagu . 
 `` ole miss , `` the univers offici were told , had let the state down bad : it law professor were help the young lawyer with their case . face with a threaten cut in it budget , ole miss hastili drop the oeo hot potato and even forc out two professor who serv part-tim in oeo . 
 industri insid say that supplier such as panason co. , a unit of matsushita electr industri co. of japan , lost million of dollar in the reorganization. today , panason is su mr. zinn 's father , julius , who serv as a director and advis to entertain market , alleg that custom hi-fi has n't compli with it court-approv reorgan plan . 
 whatev the econom and procedur problem that besieg iran 's peopl and govern , their is a true republic. within that framework , jew and christian serv in elect posit . 
 the network of former militari offic involv in the iran-contra affair has play a role in clandestin oper go far beyond ship arm to anti-sandinista guerrilla in nicaragua. oper as contractor to the u.s. govern , the offic have serv in recent year as middlemen , facilit arm transfer and provid aircraft for separ secret activ sanction by the defens depart and central intellig agenc . 
 at that time , some director resign from the board , the spokesman said. he said the compani hope that this chang will make it easier to recruit busi execut to serv on the lear board , but he declin to comment on whether the chang would allow the compani to more easili obtain liabil coverag for it director . 
 mr. kelley 's appoint would fill the seat vacat by emmett rice , a carter administr appointe who announc in octob that he would resign from the fed on dec. 31 to return to the privat sector. mr. kelley would serv until jan. 31 , 1990 , when mr. rice 's term was to end . 
 on one mission he was select to coordin the oper of the entir eighth air forc fighter command , which meant that from the air he was control almost 800 battle-dispers plane . two of the most famous fighter pilot who serv under blakesle 's command were captain don s. gentil ( thirti victori ) and john t. godfrey ( thirty-six victori ) . 
 the ident of the individu who decid on the name cornucopia for the submarin depot ship in which the suppli offic serv is hidden deep in the recess of the navi depart , but the name is startl appropri , for she is a fount of plenty. men who do not serv in her think her the ugliest ship that has been design sinc noah went into the busi , and they may be right . 
 there is n't ani repres of the stephen 's interest on worthen 's board , though worthen 's presid and chief execut offic , curt bradburi jr. , was a longtim stephen inc. official. both mochtar and jame riadi have serv as worthen director , and jame held worthen manag job until he resign in octob 1986 . 
 mr. abbott succeed jame h. titcomb , who is retir from the board. mr. reni succeed leon a. gorman , who is resign after serv the normal 12-year director 's term , the compani said . 
 `` on an articl in the wall street journal discuss whether dye in color toilet paper caus river pollut : `` the tissu issue. `` on a senior scholast item about the first femal ever to serv as a u.s. senat page : `` girl turn page in senat histori . 
 he pass up locker room and the pole-vault area , among other , to fund the first-aid room in the school 's new field house. `` i serv in the medic corp dure world war ii , '' explain the retir invest advis . 
 most of his life he had live by hunt . milo dodg had been a texa ranger with walker , and had serv as a boy in the armi dure the war with mexico . 
 in the first quarter end juli 31 , geac had a net loss of $ 2.9 million on revenu of $ 15.9 million. an offici of peat marwick ltd. , which agre to serv as the creditor ' truste under the restructur plan , said the plan is similar to a chapter 11 bankruptcy-law file in the u.s. , under which a compani seek time from it creditor to reorgan it busi . 
 thousand of young black in biafra pour into his fourth commando divis in 1968. they want to serv under the red and green flag becaus they thought that steiner had juju , or luck . 
 such a move would hard be unpreced ; 12 commission have been so elev in the commiss 's 53-year history. the 63-year-old mr. shad serv beyond the end of his five-year term last june so that he could overse the blitz against insid trade and shepherd sever project , includ the computer of the sec 's corporate-disclosur file system . 
 as an economist he won acclaim from mani of his contemporari for introduc the 1948 currenc reform that pave the way to the wirtschaftswund , the german econom miracle. later , from 1963 to 1966 he serv as chancellor . 
 this is in strong contrast with the small , politic nsc staff. the distinct between profession expert and polit respons offici is imposs to observ while serv on the nsc staff . 
 current justic are appoint by the governor , vet by the commiss on judici appoint and put on the ballot for public approv or disapprov at the next general election. they serv 12-year term , after which they go befor the voter again . 
 somehow , we must develop a schedul of reinforc that sustain the now short-liv sensit business-eth cours demonstr achieve. perhap one way is to bring togeth , for period analysi of busi decis face and taken , those who make the decis , in meet facilit by outsid well qualifi to point out or elicit the ethic dimens of a situat -- much as is done by the ethicist who serv on hospit committe of medic ethic . 
 clive barker is the high tout stephen king of the futur ( stephen king is do the tout ) and he live up to his billing. `` the damnat game '' ( ace/putnam , 379 page , $ 18.95 ) is a mortifi thriller about a gambler who is taken from prison to serv as bodyguard to an eccentr industrialist . 
 with the except of the late dr. martin luther king , jr. , it would be hard to think of anoth afro-american leader of that time who could have command abroad as much attent and respect as malcolm did. malcolm could , therefor , serv as a rove ambassador for the afro-american communiti in it quest for intern support and understand of the racial problem in america . 
 there had been famous lute-mak in cremona as far back as the thirteenth centuri ; later on there were also viol-mak , among them marco del busseto , who rank as one of the recogn master . one can therefor assum that andrea serv as an apprentic with busseto , although it is true that the wide sound-hol and the slope edg of his instrument are reminisc of the brescia school . 
 somewhat unnerv , lepet almost fail to notic the thin particl of a man who sat at a desk besid him , his flake of a bodi almost total lost in the cushion of a special made chair. this was the intric contrapt teener , who was to serv as lepet 's assist , a onc great detect whose bodi had liter been trim down by gunfir in a major shoot-out . 
 investor might also worri about who 's mind the store at loews. while mr. tisch devot much of his time to look after the compani 's $ 750 million invest in cbs , his brother , preston robert tisch , has been serv as postmast general sinc last august . 
 if he believ , as he has said , that the duart govern is promot econom growth and strengthen the democrat system , he was either misinform by his subordin about the true situat in el salvador , or he was conscious promot an econom system diametr opposit to that which he promot for the unit states. '' one salvadoran , who serv as a paratroop in the u.s. armi , say : `` from now on , it 's no longer the unit state -- no more miami . 
 mr. henz serv on the nsc staff from 1977 to 1980 . 
 both men lack battl experi and that was the chief reason for my transfer . although the captain had serv as a prospect command on a u-boat patrol in the atlant , onli one-third of the ship 's compani had tast combat ; the rest had to be train for their first mission . 
 mellon director select the 55-year-old mr. cahouet ( pronounc cow-et ) appar becaus of his success in turn around anoth troubl bank concern , san francisco 's crocker nation corp. , between 1984 and 1986. he serv as presid and chief execut offic at crocker until it was acquir by well fargo & co. in may 1986 . 
 mr. hu , long thought to be the chosen successor to carri on the far-reach econom and polit reform begun by mr. deng , was forc to resign from his parti post friday. zhao ziyang , maintain his post as premier , was name to serv concurr as parti general secretari . 
 to eas the stalem , the panel propos increas hous term to four year from two year and senat term to eight year from six , with elect to be held onli in presidenti campaign years. panel member suggest permit member of congress to serv in the cabinet , eas the senat major need for treati approv from two-third to 51 % , and give congress author to limit campaign expenditur . 
 he first move to charleston in 1934 , work for the associ press in raleigh , north carolina , and new york citi , and move back to charleston in 1947 . dure world war ii he serv in the navi . 
 new york mercantil exchang member elect william m. bradt , an independ floor trader , to be chairman of the 115-year-old futur exchange. mr. bradt , who defeat stanley r. meierfeld , the exchang 's vice chairman , will serv a two-year term start immedi . 
 in contrast , john f. kennedi and lyndon johnson did not have activ militari offic on their nsc staff for most of their presidencies. kennedi had the bay of pig , and afterward immedi ask maxwel taylor to serv as a special advis ( although not on the nsc staff ) ; johnson had vietnam , a war without a strategi -- inde , without clear militari goal -- orchestr larg by civilian counsel , both in the white hous and in the offic of the secretari of defens . 
 as a teenag , mr. robert work in a lear siegler inc. guidanc system plant in grand rapid , mich. , where he was a member of the uaw. later , he was elect shop steward , and by the time he was promot to labor relat manag he was negoti with a uaw region repres by the name of owen bieber. mr. bieber now serv as uaw presid . 
 a stronger currenc reduc cash flow. paul h. aron , an american who serv as vice chairman of daiwa america , say that all make a good textbook theori , but noth els . 
 the first question was , say jackson , `` what are we talk about ? `` to head up the offic of new communiti develop , earli in 1970 , romney brought in nicoson , who had previous serv as a consult to hud . 
 even the moral trauma of a would-b conscienti objector , forc to make his first kill , is on-target. terenc knox as the sergeant and a crew of newcom as his platoon creat a solid ensembl cast of soldier serv out their 12-month stay in hell . 
 we do n't like to interrupt funerals. '' all the pilot at this base are civilian serv their annual tour of armi duti . 
 `` at this particular time , '' the wisconsin democrat said , `` i think we need someon who will be perceiv as have absolut no conflict of interest in the administr of the sec , and someon who is veri tough on crime. '' one candid said to have such credenti is judg duffi , who serv as the sec 's new york region administr from 1969 until 1972 . 
 year , quarter , and month meet have mani project of their own. quaker serv on the subcommitte of these organ and score like them , on the board of school and colleg , on meet committe in abund . 
 at 12:30 p.m. , the commodor hail his captain with order to attack , and the vessel move smart into their posit . an offic aboard the flagship who had serv under other commodor watch the proceed with awe . 
 in august of 1946 a mutual fund known as manag fund , inc. , was found in st. loui , missouri , by two cousin , hilton slayton and hovey slayton . hilton was the domin figur in the compani , serv as presid and make pretti well all the decis . nine men serv on the board of director , includ `` nonaffili `` director who were name by hilton slayton and a close friend of his . 
 on the latest vote , mr. henkel said he did n't believ an actual conflict of interest exist , but was abstain `` to avoid even the slightest appear of impropriety. '' mr. henkel and lawrenc white are serv on the board while await senat confirm . 
 the true order of success was to be restor ; the queen had not existed. what happen to the surviv favorit of hashepsow one can onli guess , but a few appar surviv to serv under tuthmosi . 
 but sen. paul tribl ( r. , va. ) said investig have found evid that the general withdrew more than $ 80,000 of the money to pay for a small plane , a porsch sport car , and a visit to a weight-reduct camp with former central intellig agenc offic thoma clines. mr. cline serv as an arm dealer in europ and receiv an estim $ 990,003 under a secret account establish on his behalf by mr. hakim . 
 howard baker of tennesse or john tower of texa , to replac mr. casey. mr. gate has serv as mr. casey 's deputi sinc last april 18 . 
 and so , abov all other , did the grand dean of american academ thought , freedom , and progress , dr. john dewey. even in his old , old age , out of his profound feel for justic , dewey agre to serv as chairman of the commiss that was establish to investig the charg against leon trotski . 
 the guidanc staff consist of thirteen full-tim counselor , includ the director . one of the staff serv as a vocat counselor . 
 georg r. catlett , fifty-thre , arthur andersen 's repres on the account principl board , vigor upheld his firm 's unpopular posit dure deliber on the problem of account for merger and other busi combin . donald erickson , fifty-six , head of the chicago offic , also serv as chairman of arthur andersen 's board of director . 
 other nation quick adopt this practic of `` conscript `` or draft men. that is , instead of be ask to fight for pay or for patriot , men were made to serv . 
 upon assum command of the depart of arizona , general nelson a. mile was direct by the war depart to use most vigor oper for the destruct or captur of the hostil apach . the follow extract are from instruct issu april 20th , 1886 , for the inform and guidanc of troop serv in the southern portion of arizona and new mexico . 
 the overal success of the one-to-on relationship in reach citi slum children has stimul a number of suburban communiti to adopt volunt program of their own . freeport , l. i. , and lexington , mass. , have recent adopt the idea ; in orang counti , calif. , hundr of volunt are serv in classroom , prepar curriculum materi , work in playground . 
 born of an old danish famili , she carri forward it tradit of make contribut to danish literatur while establish a distinguish nich for herself in english as well as danish letter . her father gain distinct as a writer after he had serv as an armi offic and come to america , where he live for sever year as a trapper with the pawne indian in minnesota . 
 transport secretari elizabeth dole said , `` he sought to make a posit differ in peopl 's live , and he has succeeded. '' mr. engen serv on the nation transport safeti board for two year befor go to the faa . 
 greenspan and johnson `` march to quit differ drummer '' on mani econom issues. anoth johnson friend recal that when the vice chairman serv at the treasuri he `` was veri , veri critic '' of posit mr. greenspan -- then an outsid reagan advis -- took in favor of tax increas and social secur overhaul . 
 henri cornelius agrippa von nettesheim was born at cologn on the fourteenth of septemb , 1486 . he was educ at the univers of cologn , and as a young man serv as a soldier in the armi of maximilian i of germani . 
 ozaki and then sorg were hang on novemb 7 , 1944 . ( gordon w. prang is professor of histori at the univers of maryland . dure world war ii he serv as a lieuten command in the u.s. navi , and in 1945 was assign to the u.s. militari govern in tokyo . 
 walt disney co. name robert j. fitzpatrick , cultural-affair director for the 1984 los angel olymp , to serv as presid of disney 's plan eurodisneyland near pari . 
 they come from everi walk of life rich , poor , busi and profession peopl , farmer and tradesmen. they serv without pay or compens of ani kind. more than 100,000 local citizen are serv on the board of communiti action agenc . 
 that the time of enlist of ewe 's brigad of six hundr men all expir the first of jan. next and that the offic and men and gen. ewe himself have declar that they will serv no longer . 
 he ad that the `` announc is yet anoth signal to congress and the american peopl that presid reagan is determin to stay on top of this controversi until it has been fulli resolved. '' mr. abshir has serv in the nato post sinc 1983 and was consid for the job as the presid 's nation secur advis when lt. col. john poindext resign last month . 
 former associ of marin lt. col. oliv north paint a color and detail pictur of how the fire white hous aid provid clandestin militari advic , money and munit to the nicaraguan contras. conserv activist robert owen testifi befor congression investig committe that he serv as a frequent `` courier '' between col. north and the top leader of the nicaraguan democrat forc , the main contra group . 
 long and laxalt orchestr their lobbi effort here. sen. long has said he will serv on the board of governor for the new york stock exchang . 
 nugan and hand have such well-plac friend ? distinguish militari offic serv as consult and associ . 
 georg brinton mcclellan handsom , dash , brilliant and success had been the youngest cadet ever accept at west point and the most youth to graduat . after serv some year in the armi , he resign , marri a beauti new york socialit and becam presid of a railroad in ohio . 
 adolfo calero , who resign under pressur from moder from the old director in februari , is like to be includ in the new leadership panel. alfonso robelo , the respect moder who onc press for reform with mr. cruz , has repeat said he wo n't serv with mr. calero , but there is specul he might chang his mind . 
 last month kaiser agre in principl to creat the hold compani in exchang for a $ 140 million cash infus from mr. clore. if kaiser sharehold approv the restructur plan , the geneva , switzerland , financi will serv as chairman of the hold compani and name a major of it director for five years. kaiser 's chairman and chief execut offic , cornel maier , would retain his current posit and serv as the parent 's vice chairman . 
 sol m. linowitz , former u.s. ambassador to the organ of american state , give a clear warn : `` a greater threat to the unit state than russian presenc is that latin american countri will becom disench with us for not show interest . we must find way to encourag the latin to look north , not east . `` ( carl t. rowan has serv as director of the u.s. inform servic and as ambassador to finland . 
 with engin degre from arizona state univers , his previous experi includ start an oregon compani that devis inform system for bank and serv as director of manag inform system at pullman inc. one of the four founder , mark fox , who is serv as interim presid and chief execut until a successor for mr. geisel is found , contend that ani friction between the founder and mr. geisel were minor . 
 rep. doug barnard ( d. , ga. ) vote for the higher level in the subcommitte , initi yesterday did n't vote on reduc the limit and in a later vote yesterday oppos rais the limit from $ 5 billion. all but seven member of the full committe serv on the subcommitte that consid the bill tuesday . 
 he was appoint a candid member of the rule politburo in april 1985 , but never achiev the full vote status won by marshal ustinov , a civilian who becam one of the most power men in the kremlin dure his eight year as defens minister. gen. yazov most recent serv sever month as a deputi defens minist for personnel . 
 those who knew him shrug and said , `` oh , cump 's all right , but he alway was an odd hors . `` sinc sherman was a west pointer and had serv in the regular armi , he was given command of a regiment from ohio . 
 he join time magazin in 1951 . in the 1968 elect campaign he serv as chief of research and write for richard nixon and subsequ spent two year in washington as a special assist to the presid . 
 southern grudg accept a slowdown in militari spend , while northern agre to scale back their plan for welfar and mass-transit programs. rep. leath help to forg the budget compromis and then serv as emissari to his southern colleagu on it behalf . 
 mr. hull , who has u.s. and costa rican citizenship and a long , but unclear defin relationship with the u.s. govern , now is emerg from the shadow of the contra war. last week robert owen , who serv as a courier for lt. col. oliv north , the fire nation secur council staffer , told congression investig committe that mr. hull is `` a man who has done a tremend amount for his countri '' by help the contra maintain a southern front against nicaragua . 
 we have road , tractor , telephon , even medic clinics. `` unlik most of israel 's arab , the son of druze serv in the isra armi . '' 
 accord , the hill which rose abov and beyond the american camp ( now known as gallow hill ) was select for the execut and a gallow was erected. barber relat that the hangman abscond and sever boy about twelv year of age were order by putnam to serv in his place . 
 joe hors was elect presid ; katherin bonner , first vice-presid ; charl johnson , second vice-presid ; margaret scott , secretari ; and burli dutton , treasur ; with hudson davi and ethel guthrey as board members. john holstun is chaplain and john trott will serv as marshal . 
 this is particular true in promot . to give an exampl , the polic commission or other top law enforc offic is almost invari a polit appointe serv at the discret of the mayor . 
 mr. atwood 's broad experi , main in the non-automot side of the compani , provid him with a perspect on gm 's grow oper that few of it other execut possess. prior to his last post , mr. atwood serv as the top execut in the compani 's world-wid truck and bus group . 
 other term of the agreement were n't disclosed. while each compani will be equal repres in manag the partnership , jame a. glime of k mart 's specialti retail divis will serv as chief execut . 
 `` paul volcker has becom a major asset to this administr , '' mr. gramley said. but he ad that mr. volcker , who has serv as fed chairman sinc august 1979 , might agre to stay on for onli anoth year or so . 
 western health plan inc. said dougla c. werner resign as presid and chief execut offic after serv in the post for eight month . 
 they had been sent to vietnam as replac for soldier who had fallen in battl or who had complet their tour of duty. they would serv exact one year , and then they , too , would be rotat home . 
 i sent my brother porico ( white hors ) with mr. georg wratton on to fort bowi to see general mile , and to tell him that we wish to return to arizona ; but befor these messeng return i met two indian scout kayitah , a chokonen apach , and marteen , a nedni apach . they were serv as scout for captain lawton 's troop . 
 at least twenty-eight men , experienc in foreign affair , are present to the council by the govern of the six as prospect candid for seat on the commission. the fourteen member final select serv a term of four year . 
 it was of littl help to their relationship that the son sometim show more foresight than the father . while serv as a vice presid of a famili bank , w. l. iii onc loan $ 6,000 to the owner of a movi theatr , who want the money to buy an organ . 
 she sew curtain for all the front window , replac the one dingi pair arthur had hung in the consult room. for inn she made a black jacket , resplend with brass button , so he could serv as the doctor 's page when not in school . 
 wish for a son had becom onli my public facad . serv as father to littl girl was now my stock in trade , and i love everi minut of it well , almost everi minut . 
 within ten year , the trust territori 's budget has quadrupl to almost $ 60 million . almost 300 peac corp volunt are serv in the island , 75 percent of them teach micronesian teacher to teach english as a second languag . 
 `` the closer we get to the end , the more like we are to promot from within. '' mr. tuttl also say that he can draw from a pool of high-level busi execut and univers administr who want the experi of serv in govern but do n't want career in washington . 
 the charg of improprieti in have activ duti militari offic take the fifth amend illustr anoth facet of the problem. no one has deni that when adm. poindext and col. north sought fifth amend protect , they were act within their right ; it just seem wrong to have men serv in the activ militari forc of the nation do so . 
 dure that summer georg took sever trip with byrn . occasion he serv as rodman for other fredericksburg surveyor . 
 mr. strauss is also chairman of the government-control bayernwerk ag , which control a controversi new atom plant in wackersdorf. mr. strauss has been a drive forc behind europ 's heavili subsid consortium of aerospac concern , airbus industri , which he serv as chairman . 
 redon was deepli patriot , and is the onli artist who come to mind who actual enjoy go to war . draft into the french armi dure the franco-prussian war of 1870-71 , he found it rigor exhilar and serv with distinct until a persist fever forc a medic discharg . 
 ladi mari ellington , wife of the british consul , was maid of honor . the honor michael chaconi , epirot deputi to the greek nation assembl , serv as best man . 
 also , parachutist could be use in mani ways. they could serv as soldier behind enemi line , as spi across border , or as agent to organ revolt in other countri . 
 he was 70 , but he began the work at a kill pace . in the congress alon , he serv on ten committe . 
 attorney familiar with the investig , howev , said mr. mees has told associ that he want to avoid ani potenti conflict of interest , or even the appear of such problems. mr. mees has acknowledg that in 1982 , while serv as counselor to presid reagan , he ask other administr offici to look into complaint by wedtech that it was n't receiv fair treatment from the armi . 
 the venal at the court in england was reflect in virginia . berkeley receiv pay equal to at least $ 20,000 today , and the burgess , who had start out serv without salari , demand , and got , regular stipend . 
 some said he was be haughti , but he was never that ; he was simpli tri to get his work done. the select of men to serv on his cabinet was one of the presid 's first import duti . 
 `` he need to becom a lot of peopl 's second choices. '' mr. bennett , who has serv in congress for 36 year , is base his campaign part on senior , the veri principl that was fractur when mr. aspin ascend to the chairmanship in 1985 . 
 this procedur is grossli unfair to the vote member who deserv a clear-cut choic of fresh candid each year. also , it undermin the theori of widespread particip and the equal opportun for all member to serv activ in an offici capac . 
 a gm spokesman said that post will remain vacant. onli somewhat less daunt is the task face mr. wheelon , a respect expert in space and satellit communic who has serv on the presid 's foreign intellig advisori board and on the commiss that investig the challeng space shuttl disast earlier this year . 
 `` it was discov in a complex set of circumst wherebi a certain piec of carpet was found not to have compli '' with some fire standard , mr. kaufman said. he said that `` lead expert in fire and flammabl materi '' have been consult and are serv on the compani task forc , though he declin to identifi the individu involv . 
 he head a committe of 14 leader from union local , but report to uaw presid owen bieber , who join mr. yokich at the session last week. although mr. bieber , 57 , will be elig to serv until 1995 , bet is alreadi heavi that mr. yokich will be his eventu successor . 
 the most import of the twenti vuillaum , and at the same time one of the best french violin-mak of the nineteenth centuri , was jean baptist vuillaum , who was born in mirecourt in 1798 , and die in pari in 1875 . after serv his apprenticeship , he settl in pari at the age of twenti and join anoth nativ of mirecourt , a naval offic name francoi chanot , in his experi to develop a new violin design . 
 ad to the sensit of peer ' investig was the fact that koster 's post-amer divis job was superintend of west point , one of the most prestigi assign in the militari . westmoreland himself had serv in the same posit en rout to becom chief of staff . 
 mr. fell 's introduct to dome mine was through the board room , not the mine shaft. he began his career in 1953 as a lawyer with dome mine ' longtim firm , fasken & calvin , and later serv as a dome director and vice chairman for his uncl , a. bruce matthew , a promin canadian businessman and then-chairman of dome . 
 sun co. said glenmed trust co. gradual will sell as mani as 2.7 million share , or 2.5 % , of sun 's common stock outstanding. glenmed serv as truste and fiduciari for a varieti of trust and estat and own about 30.2 million share , or 28 % , of sun . 
 meanwhil , the offic of manag and budget , which former play a big role in formul domest polici , has adopt a substanti reduc role under mr. miller. `` there doe n't seem to be ani particular origin think go on at omb , outsid of strict budget issu , '' say lawrenc kudlow , who serv as the agenc 's chief economist for two year under mr. miller 's predecessor , david stockman . 
 this bear onli the slightest resembl to current event in chicago. immedi after this articl appear , the central committe of the democrat parti of cook counti elect georg dunn , mr. vrdolyak 's predecessor as chairman , to serv again as chairman. the vote for mr. dunn was unanim , the first time that has occur in the 11 year i have serv on the committe . 
 they captur all the soviet offic on the staff of the other side , thus end the war games. by the middl 1930 's thousand of soviet boy and girl were grown-up and readi to serv in the forc . 
 chines premier zhao ziyang will continu serv concurr as act communist parti secretary-gener until a schedul parti congress in octob , vice premier yao yilin said . 
 it had start becaus the colonel and drew knew each other long befor either of them were connect with astronaut . they had serv togeth briefli in southeast asia and drew had done morrison some sort of favor . 
 but in cathol philanthrophi , mr. grace and his compani have few peers. abl to get by on four to five hour of sleep a night , mr. grace devot about 40 % of his spare time to serv as a director , benefactor or advis to more than 50 cathol chariti and educ institut , rang from st. vincent 's hospit in new york to the univers of notr dame . 
 his campaign against mr. hatcher for the democrat ' endors -- the win of which is tantamount to victori in the mayor race -- pose the toughest test for the gari mayor sinc he was first elect 20 year ago. mr. barn 's campaign has center on gari 's declin economi and whether mr. hatcher has serv for too long . 
 mr and mrs donald ellesworth , from barbado . donald , a dentist , serv in the r. a. f. dure the war and now practis in east finchley . 
 this is the committe for purchas of product and servic of the blind and other sever handicap . mr. hasbrook has been activ in indiana polit and has serv in both hous of the state legislatur . 
 this doctor also must be will to coordin care among the specialist who treat his patients. doctor of intern medicin also can serv as good primary-car physician , especi if they have had the train that qualifi them as a true generalist . 
 `` we re not lock out from the democrat parti as open gay peopl , '' say tom chorlton , past execut director of the nation associ of gay and lesbian democrat club , `` and we re go to be make aid an issue. '' gov. dukaki alreadi has felt the furi of homosexu who , anger over his refus to permit gay to serv as foster parent , critic him dure his reelect campaign and picket him dure the speech on boston common that open his campaign last month . 
 he 'd be replac as foreign minist by current ambassador to the u.s. anatoli f. dobrynin . gromyko has serv as foreign minist for 14 year and was himself ambassador to the u.s. befor that . 
 while volum have been written on the fundament sound , or lack thereof , of the administr 's provis of arm to iran and the divers of fund to the contra , one issu has been ignor : the natur and proprieti of the role of the activ militari offic on the nation secur council. it can be argu that involv offic in this process was a mistak , but a mistak inher in have activ militari personnel serv on the nsc staff . 
 the yale corpor , whose chairman is the presid of the univers , has alway featur a fair number of emin personag . the member includ ten successor fellow , a self-perpetu group that serv indefinit ; six alumni fellow elect by the alumni to six-year term ; and two ex-officio member , the governor and lieuten governor of connecticut . 
 deputi attorney general arnold burn has the final author over all such investig , includ whether mr. mees 's action warrant a formal crimin inquiry. mr. mees , as previous report , has acknowledg invest about $ 60,000 with a partnership set up by w. franklyn chinn , a san francisco invest manag who also serv as a director and a consult for wedtech . 
 he reach eltham , the home of jacki 's aunt , as jacki custi die . the young man , onli twenty-eight , had been serv as an aid on the general 's staff when he was taken ill . 
 in el salvador , a group of congression aid learn dure a februari visit that some u.s. food aid was use to prod local peasant into side with the government. in some villag , the food , which is distribut by the salvadoran militari under the sponsorship of the u.s. militari , was be given onli to those peasant who agre to serv in the rural civil defens . 
 i take strong except to jame p. sterba 's conclus in his feb. 27 editorial-pag articl that `` too mani '' non-lin troop who serv in vietnam do n't merit have the film `` platoon '' dedic to them . 
 anoth research call the action the `` friday afternoon massacre. '' senior offici at the fda were n't avail for comment yesterday , but one fda staff member familiar with the physician who serv on the advisori committe said that `` it was the press that believ this drug was go to pass the committe with fli color , but the committe simpli ask for what is alway requir -- proof of clinic effect . '' 
 sam reserv most of his ridicul for my former boss and those of us around him. it may be the fact that mr. reagan serv longer that provid sam with more ammunit , or perhap we had chronic foot-in-mouth diseas . 
 despit his degre in russian studi and intern econom from boston colleg and john hopkin school of advanc intern studi , he decid to forgo a promis career in east-west trade relat to becom a strateg consult for compani and state and local governments. he onc work for arthur andersen & co. and bain & co. , and has serv on presid reagan 's commiss for industri competit . 
 the first settler must have carri in their head recollect of the countri manor and rectori in which so mani of them had been rear . some were regiment offic who had serv in the american coloni , and in australia they drew on memori of a coloni architectur that had evolv in southern plantat and new england countri town . 
 initi , the unit will suppli generic drug for certain of it hmo member , the compani said. dr. philip s. schein , clinic professor of medicin and pharmacolog at georgetown univers , will serv as presid and chief execut offic of the new unit . 
 so some oil-industri type and their polit helper -- join by hope academician who had thrive energi consult career cut short by the 1981 measur -- are work up a campaign to get uncl sam back into the busi of energi price fixing. the tip-off came earli in novemb when georg m. keller , the chevron corp. ceo now serv as chairman of the american petroleum institut , propos that the feder govern help the industri set a `` minimum price '' for crude oil . 
 the late adlai stevenson was a man great admir for his intellig , integr and remark abil to express america 's ideal and aspir . he was also a man of experi , have serv as governor of illinoi . yet , have been twice defeat for presid , he serv no role in govern , until john f. kennedi , a member of the same parti as stevenson , appoint him ambassador to the unit nation . 
 indian offici said they base their latest court claim on document carbid 's indian unit submit to the government. the document , file between 1975 and 1981 , are request by the unit to extend the employ of l.j. couvara , a union carbid engin who serv as project manag dure construct of the bhopal plant , the indian paper state . 
 two incumb governor from the secur industri were renomin : r. john stanton jr. , presid and chief execut , rotan mosl inc. , and georg a. vonder linden , presid and chief execut , smith barney , harri upham & co. mr. jone and mr. johnson are serv the unexpir term of previous governor , and their nomin are consid a formal . 
 dee was care at first , but soon enough kelli had talk him into produc his wondrous crystal. after the proper prayer and incant , kelli offer to serv as skryer . 
 alabama school for the blind had eight particip in the american junior blind bowl associ fall tournament . mr. lewi kryger serv as their coach . 
 daniel j. boorstin , who has serv as librarian of congress for near a dozen year , announc he would leav the post `` to becom a full-tim citizen of the republ of letter . '' 
 congression investig say that mr. webster and one of his top aid , oliv `` buck '' revel , knew more about the secret arm shipment to iran -- and learn about them month earlier -- than previous disclosed. offici say that mr. revel found out about the iranian initi last juli or earli august , while serv on a super-secret feder anti-terror group with then-nat secur council aid lt. col. oliv north . 
 white and henkel were appoint nov. 7 to fill unexpir term on the three-memb bank board. becaus congress was n't in session then , they have serv without confirm . 
 at one time weight was a major problem dure the earli day of camp. but so mani of today 's athlet run summer camp and clinic , or serv as instructor , that it is conveni to work out . 
 congression investig want to determin whether mr. mees or his aid contact vice adm. poindext or other nsc offici befor the decis was made to resum the investig , and what may have been discussed. on abc-tv 's `` this week with david brinkley '' yesterday , rep. dant fascel ( d. , fla. ) , who will serv on the hous select panel investig the scandal , said the committe doe n't want to prolong the probe , but it wo n't rush `` just to get it over with . '' 
 succeed him as presid of the pharmaceut and health product concern will be georg ebright , smithklin 's 49-year-old chief oper officer. mr. ebright will serv as oper chief , as well as presid , smithklin said . 
 `` tell me exact what happen and what you did at canton . `` mereweth felt for a moment like a truant schoolboy summon befor the master , though this offic had serv as his first lieuten for six month and had been his close friend and confid . 
 nor did i say , `` honor thi father and thi mother `` ; becaus some parent are n't worth honor ; i hope to be , and if i am , my children will respect me anyway . i made the command about all men be equal befor the law the first one after i had serv on the juvenil juri here in fort worth . 
 the stake includ 113,000 share purchas on jan. 21 at price of $ 7.625 to $ 8.25 a share , the file said. mr. edelman said he has control the new york-bas compani , which leas stockyard , for about four year and serv as vice chairman of it board . 
 he was jealous becaus we had includ tawab on the trip ! abdul was use to be our onli afghan companion and alway serv as our interpret on ani trip . 
 mr. winn , 62 , has been an import fund-rais for sever republican candid , includ presid reagan and sen. armstrong. a former colorado gop chairman and gubernatori candid , mr. winn serv as assist secretari for hous and urban develop in the begin of the reagan administr . 
 wherehous director reject those bids. adler & shaykin has receiv financ commit from chemic new york corp. and equit capit manag corp. , and merril lynch capit market is serv as it financi advis for the buy-out , which will be complet by wei hold inc. , the compani form by adler & shaykin . 
 after the takeov of peopl express last month , it was been unclear what mr. burr would do. mr. burr also will serv as a director and chairman of the execut committe of continent airlin . 
 you have met general bonapart at my house. well then , it is he who wish to serv as father to the orphan of alexandr beauharnai , as husband to his widow . 
 walcott was his chief depend . he had serv his apprenticeship at the pay-tabl of connecticut , end as comptrol of his nativ state . 
 out of all this , the investor manag compani took in fee total $ 4,500,000 , with fundament investor shoulder $ 3,000,000 of the cost and it brother kick in the rest . the key man in the over-al oper was hugh w. long , who serv as presid not onli of the fund , but also of it three other special fund . 
 mr. gate , who hold a doctor in soviet histori from georgetown univers , was assign to the staff of the nation secur council from 1974 until 1979. he also has serv as the cia 's top soviet analyst . 
 carrier or messeng pigeon are also import compon of our arm forc . mani of them serv in the signal corp of the armi and air forc dure world war ii . 
 the orthodox would take the central superintend , embrac kansa ; while the hicksit would be respons for the northern superintend , includ nebraska. quaker were appoint as superintend in both region , and quaker agent were chosen to serv under them . 
 there are today about 4,500,000 salespeople. approxim nineti per cent of these sale worker serv as salespeopl in retail store , salespeopl in wholesal trade , manufactur ' sale repres , insur agent and broker , and real estat salesmen and broker . 
 after 7 minut 5 second , boucher score for the ranger who then went on , inspir , to win the cup . patrick remain with the ranger until 1946 , serv as their coach-gener manag until 1939 and as their general manag after he turn coach duti over to boucher . 
 the airlin pay high salari to their pilot , commensur with the profession standard they demand . usual after a young pilot is hire and train , he serv initi as a flight engin or a first offic ( co-pilot ) . 
 last may , depart offici announc the close of a lengthi crimin investig of the matter , which began in summer 1984 , without prosecut ms. ferraro or her spouse. but at the time , govern attorney held open the possibl of file a civil suit over ms. ferraro 's failur to disclos her husband 's financ on annual feder financi report while she serv in congress . 
 nathaniel t. reec , 40-year-old chief financi offic and presid of the newberi electr inc. unit , was elect to succeed mr. davi in the posts. mr. davi , 44 , continu as chairman and will serv as a consult , `` work on last-minut attempt to keep the compani out '' of bankruptcy-law proceed or to work with interest parti if the compani doe file . 
 throughout south america , for exampl , shaman is , with onli a few except , restrict to men. it is also predomin a male occup among the eskimo , while women rare serv as magician in australia , melanesia , and polynesia . 
 in it he say : `` give me just two or three men in a villag and i will take the villag . `` in the goldwat campaign of 1952 and 1958 and in all other campaign where i have serv as a consult , i have follow the advic of mao tse-tung . 
 in 1967 , there were 215 school under the depart of education. 7,892 teacher and staff member were employ by the depart for a total student enrol of 169,662 in the public school throughout the state. on the mainland , each communiti , citi , or counti elect a group of adult citizen to serv on a school board . 
 terenc anderson , judg hast 's lawyer , said later that the case against the judg is `` warmed-ov circumstanti evid '' and predict that there wo n't be an impeachment. judg hast , the first black feder judg in florida , continu to serv , and is be assign case . 
 the number of mci execut who knew befor yesterday was fewer `` than the finger you have on one hand , '' say one executive. dure the 10 year that mr. wright serv under mr. mcgowan as presid and chief oper offic , they were the corpor equival of the odd coupl . 
 green had approach me and i had agreed. short after i had bought the jewelri back the newspap fold and i was among the unemploy until green again approach me , this time to serv as the go-between in a kidnap . 
 although mr. gillespi rank as one of the youngest chief execut of a midwestern bank hold compani , he was tap as chief execut materi year ago. he said he was given `` veri disciplin train '' by serv in a wide varieti of post . 
 this veri english express of assent was elicit from isaac parker , a runaway sailor hide in new town , old calabar , by his host , dick ebro , son of a new town king . isaac parker had been serv as a sailor befor the mast on board the liverpool ship latham , which was command by an unpopular captain , georg colley , known for starv and ill-treat his crew . 
 the agenc also has permit the rapid expans in such `` shadow , '' or deriv , market of option on futur , which trader use in similar fashion to standard exchange-trad options. ms. phillip has been a `` general posit influenc on futur industri expans '' and serv at a `` pivot time '' in the growth of the industri , said william brodski , presid of the chicago mercantil exchang . 
 so mani were slain that the cossack bare had room enough to buri their dead . a singl nun who had left her church to join them serv as their onli nurs . 
 no alert . well , jame a. michen did want to be an elector , and becaus he serv his term , it 's quit possibl that the not-so-vener elector colleg will never be the same again . 
 brewer and brewster differ in their creed , but they were loyal partner and work well togeth . the former provid the necessari capit while the latter serv as general manag and editor-in-chief . 
 the earli missionari to lahaina , reverend and mrs. c. s. stewart , were accompani on their 1822 voyag to the sandwich island by `` betsi stockton , a color femal of educ and pieti , who had attach herself to mrs. stewart as a domest and assist missionari . `` ( this quot is from reverend stewart 's `` a resid in the sandwich island . `` ) dure her two and one-half year in hawaii , betsi stockton also serv as a teacher at lahaina . 
 `` i cough a lot and turn green '' . befor start the liabil project , mr. daynard serv as presid of the massachusett group against smoke pollut , or gasp , as the group is call . 
 she suggest one or two democrat who might be stay at one of the harrisburg hotel , but we could n't locat them , so final she said , `` mr. minehart , you ll just have to be a delegate. '' it was agre that minehart would serv in this emerg although he would have prefer not to . 
 the appoint end a five-month search for a successor to richard t. dibona , who suffer a stroke in februari 1986 and resign as presid and chairman last october. mr. burk , 57 , succeed frank a. brand , 62 , who serv as act chief execut offic . 
 william e. brown , 48 year old , a senior vice presid , was name to the addit posit of chief oper offic of this utility. he succeed leland r. nicholson , 63 , who remain presid but relinquish his oper duti to serv as a liaison with the communiti and to explor new busi opportun for the compani . 
 he previous was presid of lockheed-georgia. -- e. lloyd graham , 59 , who also will serv as general manag of the unit 's headquart oper . 
 `` there is an understand here that the kuomintang doe n't want the student movement to attract public attent or sympathi , '' say a senior journalist. the paper , china time and unit daili news , are privat own by execut who also serv as member of the parti 's central stand committe . 
 and permit loot ? i serv under him in the french and indian war , and but go on , boy . `` 
 his son had enter the armi : and young osborn follow present in the same regiment . they had serv in the west indi and in canada . 
 mr. mcclaughri , a former senior polici advis in the reagan white hous , serv on the central america task forc . 
 the 45-year-old mr. erra succeed ray mendoza , 56 , who had held the post on an interim basi sinc last month. last month dougla c. werner resign as presid and chief execut after serv eight month at the helm of this oper of health mainten organ . 
 in particular , bank seek to underwrit secur figur they will gain a more sympathet ear at the fed. mr. greenspan is `` a real devote of deregul , '' say feder deposit insur corp. chairman william seidman , who work with the pend new fed chairman when both serv in the ford white hous . 
 senior offici at the fda were n't avail for comment yesterday , but one fda staff member familiar with the physician who serv on the advisori committe said that `` it was the press that believ this drug was go to pass the committe with fli color , but the committe simpli ask for what is alway requir -- proof of clinic effectiveness. '' some doctor familiar with the physician who serv on the advisori committe said they believ the fda staff maneuv committe member into make their decis . 
 admiss ticket must be sold in advanc , and this call for a squad of aggress student-sales-people. and , when the big day come , quit a number of boy and girl must be readi to serv as ticket agent and usher . 
 `` well as a matter of fact , i have found somebody. and i ve alreadi ask him , and he 's will to serv as our sponsor and to talk for us at the town council meet tomorrow . '' 
 jess jackson , who is consid anoth run for the presid , has said that he expect mr. hatcher to play a major role in a 1988 campaign. in 1984 , mr. hatcher serv as mr. jackson 's nation campaign chairman . 
 `` the system has to be unlock , and i 'm not hold my breath until we get a presid who 's strong enough to do that , '' say gen. secord. the memori of vietnam , where virtual all the militari offic in the network serv , play a part in shape this outlook . 
 most of our peopl grin from ear to ear , not that the whole thing had been a hoax , but that they were serv under a man who would n't be cow by a ship carri twice the firepow of his own . `` if morri and other aboard the constitut had been a bit dubious about the privileg of serv under a peevish disciplinarian , prebl , in his turn , had been entertain some doubt concern his offic . 
 he has been on the staff of the johnson publish compani of chicago , illinoi , as an associ editor , and has been the new york editor of jet magazin and an associ editor of eboni magazin . for sever year he serv as a member of the public relat committe of the interraci council for busi opportun , a voluntari organ to aid small black busi enterpris . 
 most part-tim legisl believ that they wo n't be reelect if they do n't pass at least three or four bill everi session. mr. ledbett , who serv five term in the arkansa legislatur , call it a trade-off . 
 but mr. rule assert that legisl is n't necessary. mr. rule , who has serv as temporari head of the antitrust divis twice in the past two year , has a reput as a fervent , sometim abras champion of the free market . 
 in the gloomi hour befor sunris on decemb 15 , i head westward through a blizzard to harrisburg , to play my role as a member of the state elector college. the old parliamentarian who would supervis the proceed had explain over the telephon that the other democrat elector had been consult , and they want me to serv as their presid . 
 `` he had sound cautious , but don was alway cautious about commit himself to anyth ; if they like the idea it might be an excel nich for roddi , and would veri probabl help to pull don and audrey out of the middle-ag sluggish into which they were gradual settl . don had come to england to volunt for aircrew duti in the r. a. f. in 1941 , and later serv as a wireless oper with a bomber crew . 
 sinc that time , pse vice chairman dougla j. engmann has serv as act chief execut and chairman of the exchang 's board of governors. mr. mann , who hold a doctor in econom from syracus univers , was vice chairman of becker pariba for six year prior to it acquisit by merril lynch & co. , and befor that serv for five year as presid and chief execut of the feder home loan bank of san francisco. he serv in 1969-70 as assist director of the feder offic of manag and budget . 
 georg mercer , washington 's armi friend , had been appoint in charg of stamp for virginia. he came to williamsburg and public declin to serv . 
 as report previous , mr. somer will becom presid and chief oper offic of initials+ inc. , a san francisco-bas retailer. ms. bass current serv as execut vice presid and general merchandis manag of feder 's bloomingdal 's divis in new york . 
 the presid can not expect to carri out his polici if he is n't elect , and he can not get elect without a polici that appeal to the electorate. ( in my own view , the import of an arms-control agreement to the achiev of wide-bas popular support for ani administr has been massiv exagger , but it is undeni that such a connect has exist in the mind and calcul of senior administr officials. ) those who serv on the nsc staff are expect to reflect an understand of this interact between domest polit imper and national-secur object . 
 moreov , chairmen of the hous and senat judiciari committe last month urg mr. mckay to investig alleg that the attorney general `` invest in a compani known to have tie to wedtech. '' mr. mees has acknowledg invest about $ 60,000 with a partnership establish by w. franklyn chinn , a san francisco invest manag who also serv as a director and a consult for wedtech . 
 as command in chief , he return this generos tenfold. he was constant on the look for talent young men ( like 20-year-old alexand hamilton and 19-year-old marqui de lafayett ) to serv as his aid , and he becam extrem fond of most of them . 
 they have four children . dure world war ii , dr. mitchel serv in the u.s. navi , in the european , african , and middl eastern theatr . 
 the progeni of this puritan clung to new england until capt . noah grant , have serv throughout the revolut , emigr to pennsylvania in 1790 and later to ohio . 
 befor that , he was vice presid for technolog of sear world trade , a unit of chicago-bas sear , roebuck & co. mr. wood also serv as assist secretari for public affair at the defens depart from 1976 to 1977 . 
 in recent year , good salari and live allow have attract mani agricultur technician to foreign service. some enter the servic as u.s. govern employe , or serv as guest technician in foreign land . 
 on the eve of the volcker announc , mr. volpicella sold about $ 4 million to buy japanes yen at 145 yen to the dollar , on the belief that the fed chairman would n't be reappoint and the dollar would fall. his hunch was base part on report that mr. volcker 's wife was oppos to his serv a third term at the fed . 
 ronald reagan might like this new u.s. constitut : the presid can serv an unlimit number of term . 
 it was passag of the nation environment polici act of 1969 that set in motion a major expans of the feder involv in the environment crusad . that law creat the council on environment qualiti under the chairmanship of russel train , a well-known conservationist who had serv in the interior depart . 
 the long-await jubile had come . these former slave prove a great help to sherman ; men serv as guid and labor ; women cook and launder . 
 the major were better repres by men like senat jefferson davi of mississippi who , while appar commit to the idea of southern nation , were not convinc that the time and circumst were propiti in 1850 , and were will to co-oper with the compromis element within the democrat parti to the limit extent necessari to maintain a sympathet govern in washington . with such a point of view , davi serv as secretari of war in the cabinet of presid franklin pierc . 
 they had graze some two mile dure the two hour sinc noon camp ; then , come into a region where the grass was spotti , strung them out . blacki and martinez were on the point ; professor , cori , dandi , and baldi serv as outrid ; scott and shorti had the hard labor of push the drag . 
 mr. freiman , 52 , has serv in a varieti of posit dure his 24 year at the pharmaceut compani , most recent as execut vice presid for pharmaceut and agribusi . 
 i have had littl time for loll about this year. the credit union , where i serv as manag , treasur , loan offic and secur offic , has grown consider . 
 a free-lanc word processor figur the two-week jury-duti stint would cost her $ 1,200 ; she , too , never got to serve. most peopl recogn their duti to serv on a juri . 
 they do not stand up for ani nation anthem or salut ani flag , for these are but earth symbol and to honour them would verg on idolatry. they will not serv in ani armi , for there is onli one just caus and that is the caus of the lord . 
 mr. pezim , who help found the compani , said he would press his feud against management. mr. pezim said the board had broken an agreement under which he was to have continu to serv in an `` execut posit '' with the compani . 
 it hard seem possibl that it has been two year sinc i last submit a statement for a directorship on the board . i have enjoy serv on the board for the past twelv year and hope that your vote will make it possibl for me to continu for anoth biennium . 
 inde , his critic believ he know it too well. for a brief three year in the earli 1970s , he serv in the bottom tier of the foreign servic in lao and belgium . 
 the senior hamilburg continu as a director for the maker of rubber band and other products. mauric hamilburg previous serv as execut vice presid . 
 unhappili , there was no trophi to show for this fourth american naval triumph of octob , 1812 . jacob jone was a strang man , older than most of the offic who had serv with commodor prebl . 
 throughout the meal they talk of hors . loomi had onc serv in a cavalri regiment and had hunt at melton mowbray ; the american own a ranch in arizona and bred quarter hors . 
 -- the govern exert leverag over union by set the minimum wage , fix price on basic commod , underwrit a worker ' bank and hous fund , adjud workplac disput , determin the legal of strike , and wink at ubiquit corruption. -- even though it legitimaci has declin , the pri 's imprimatur remain essenti to labor candid eager to serv in the congress and elsewher -- in 1985 , to propiti the union movement , labor 's represent was increas to 25 % of the pri 's deleg within the chamber of deputi , and ctm stalwart also hold the governorship of three state , campech , durango and nayarit . 
 as one who serv on presid carter 's staff in his hour of travail , i rememb well the generous support of the wall street journal follow the fail attempt in april of 1980 to rescu our hostag in iran . 
 what upset congress more than the divers of fund is the administr 's decis to use privat citizen , includ foreign agent and arm merchant , to carri out secret foreign initi without consult congress. this privat of american foreign polici `` is far more import than waterg , '' charg sen. inouy , who serv on the senat waterg committe 14 year ago . 
 appli himself assidu to learn the spoken and written languag of china , includ mongolian , he so impress kublai khan that the ruler made him his person emissari , send him on import mission across his vast dominion . he even serv three year as governor of the rich citi of yangchow , a center of arm manufactur , with 24 town under his jurisdict . 
 in addit , they say he want to butter up attorney general edwin mees , who has been campaign against pornographi and whose support mr. fowler need to push through telecommun legislation. `` when the critic ( by conserv ) end , the fcc 's action will end , '' predict bruce fein , who onc serv as fcc general counsel under mr. fowler . 
 rod canion is presid , and jame m. harri is vice presid , engineering. mr. murto said he plan to attend the univers of st. thoma in houston to earn a master 's degre in religi educ , and then hope to becom a deacon -- a layman with certain respons in the cathol church -- or serv as an execut in non-profit group . 
 mr. segawa went to the front door , but the man derid him as a lowli `` stock peddler '' and told him to enter through the kitchen. to mr. tokuyama , who also serv as the dean of the nomura school of advanc manag , mr. segawa 's experi offer a clue to nomura 's drive . 
 and whi was his voic , bare audibl in person , scream loudest in the wilder , often drown out the more conserv voic of the n. a. a. c. p. , the urban leagu and other high respect negro organ ? i ask malcolm x , who serv as my guid through the intricaci of islam , some of these same question late one night as we drove along the noisi street of harlem . 
 mr. murril in novemb step down as chief execut , take a pay cut of $ 100,000. he will continu to serv on the board and as a special advis to mr. draper , 44 . 
 two deleg , call burgess , were elect from each of eleven larg plantat ; their duti was to establish a colleg and school . the burgess serv under a council and the governor , appoint in london . 
 he help to organ the coloni 's first militia , and play a lead role in the creation of it paper currenc . for 16 year he serv as postmast of philadelphia , a job that he took to protect his newspap . ( it was the habit of postmast to permit the mail onli of newspap they own . ) 
 messrs. norri and o'dea have sinc deni that they are look to serv on the board . 
 then , eye me close , he told me that the black panther would like for me to join their party. `` you could serv as a minist of inform . '' 
 short , stocki isaac hull , in the argus , was steadi and capabl , a man to be count on solid , as was red-head , littl charl stewart who had the syren . and there were other , lieuten and midshipmen serv under these men , who had the make of fine offic wadsworth , lawrenc , macdonough , and morri , for instanc . 
 sinc there are nine member of the court , one seat would becom vacant everi two year , assur each presid the right to appoint , with senat approv , two justic ( four if the presid were reelect ) . whenev a justic , for whatev reason , fail to complet his term , the presid would name a successor , but that successor would serv onli the unexpir portion of the term for which his predecessor had been appoint . 
 for instanc , g. william domhoff , a sociologist at the univers of california at santa cruz , who also write about leadership , disput mr. baltzel 's content that upper-class leadership is declining. mr. domhoff point to the 1988 presidenti candidaci of pierr s. dupont iv and the fact that member of sever promin famili still serv in the senat . 
 i doubt he is go to arous ani antagonism. '' the departur of mr. shad , who has serv as sec chairman for a record six year , is n't expect to trigger ani staff shakeup or an exodus of personnel . 
 a former mgm/ua entertain co. product execut claim that his compani -- one of hollywood 's weakest major studio befor it was dissolv in the last year -- suffer becaus it was shut off from caa 's best project in 1984 after a dinner at which one of it top offic offend mr. ovitz by `` tri to tell him how to run his agency. '' on the other hand , sever sourc say mr. ovitz chose at about the same time to support tri-star pictur inc. as a new studio -- and custom -- by arrang for mr. pollack , the director , to serv as it `` creativ consult . '' 
 `` control obvious went awri , '' mr. tulli said. merril lynch ad that former secretari of state william p. roger and former secur and exchang commiss member irv m. pollack will serv as advis to senior merril lynch execut in `` an intens review '' of the firm 's trade polici . 
 `` there seem to have been no major blunder in mr. yamamoto 's mangement , '' he said. sixty-year-old mr. furuta serv in sever senior miti post befor retir in 1981 . 
 head by lewi lehrman , the former drugstor tycoon , it has done everyth from sponsor nation tour by contra leader to print `` fact book '' warn of the sandinista ' communist subvers of the region. mr. lehrman , a recent convert to catholic , also serv with mr. grace on sever cathol chariti , includ the knight . 
 in march , asher edelman , the takeov artist who serv as chairman of datapoint corp. , express everi confid in his act chief execut offic -- dori bencsik , who was believ to be the highest-rank execut woman in the comput industri . 
 -- sing `` america , the beauti '' in honor of amerigo vespucci , `` who gave his name to this contin , and save the live of countless earli seafar and colonist by recommend pickl veget be eaten to ward off the sick known as scurvy. '' -- write to the suprem court bemoan the fact that a frankfurt ( felix ) and a burger ( warren ) have serv as justic , but no pickl . 
 mr. gray has been eager to resolv the problem of financi corp. befor leav office. and though mr. gray will serv until his successor , congression staffer m. danni wall , is confirm , he is n't expect to remain in offic much longer than june 30 . 
 john herrington , energi secretari , and former transport secretari drew lewi , now presid of union pacif corp. , are consid to be lead candid for mr. regan 's job. other possibl candid includ former nevada sen. paul laxalt ; a former white hous congression affair director , kenneth duberstein ; labor secretari william brock , educ secretari william bennett , and treasuri secretari jame baker , who serv as chief of staff in mr. reagan 's first term . 
 `` peter sort of channel peopl to our organ , '' she says. mr. grace 's `` rescu '' mission conclud a stormi 20-year relationship with mr. john , who in 1960 had ask him to serv as de ranc 's treasur and as it repres on miller brew 's board . 
 he is a truste of barnard colleg , a member of the advisori council of the nation cultur center , and the dramatist guild. he was select by governor rockefel to serv on the committe of the state council on the art a pioneer attempt to send theatric and music event to communiti throughout new york state . 
 while mani analyst and competitor are negat about mr. popejoy 's strategi for put american save on firm foot , those who have work with mr. popejoy are more positive. `` i think he has done an outstand job with a situat that i believ is imposs to solv , '' say ernest m. fleischer , chairman of a larg kansa thrift who serv as a financi corp. consult . 
 miss clair culhan 's descript of gi attitud toward the vietnames can be found in her unpublish diari , kept while she was in quang ngai provinc and avail from her at 6876 sherbrook street , west , no. 20 , montreal 262 , quebec , canada . dr. gordon s. livingston , baltimor , maryland , who former serv with colonel patton in south vietnam , told of the prejudic of u.s. hospit offici in the saturday review , septemb 20 , 1969 . 
 legal expert expect that whoever is chosen as independ counsel will have unpreced leeway in shape the crimin investigation. the lead candid appear to be retir feder judg lawrenc walsh , 74-year-old former presid of the american bar associ , diplomat and justic depart offici , who serv in the eisenhow and nixon administr . 
 iron , the pollard scandal explod just as u.s.-isra intellig cooper was at it best , with mr. casey set the tone. some isra sourc in washington fear that the tenur of the new cia director , william webster , may be a throwback to the time of mr. colbi and adm. stansfield turner , who serv dure the carter administr . 
 mr. sprinkel made the comment in an interview after announc his plan to leav the govern and return to chicago , where he has spent most of his life. he has been with the reagan administr sinc earli 1981 , serv first as undersecretari of the treasuri and then becom chairman of the council of econom advis 2 1/2 year ago . 
 mr. frank , chairman of southwest forest , said in an interview that his discuss with roger w. stone , chairman of stone contain , began `` in the latter part of last year. '' mr. frank said he had known mr. stone for mani year and that they serv as director of a paper industri trade group . 
 i do n't have anyth against vietnam veteran ' solidarity. everyon who serv time -- air-condit or not -- in vietnam share certain common feel and experi . 
 justic depart offici over the weekend also confirm the post 's report that mr. mees is consid whether to withdraw his invest from a partnership set up by financi manag intern inc. franklyn chinn , head of the san francisco-bas invest firm , has serv as a consult to wedtech and his activ are under scrutini by feder prosecutor . 
 if the dam fail , the probabl maximum flood on the santa ana river would inund 1.3 million resid in anaheim and other suburb and caus as much as $ 40 billion in damag , most in orang counti , accord to the corp 's risk assessment. mr. gianelli , who serv as california 's water resourc director under gov. ronald reagan , remain unpersuad . 
 the 1987 presid of the kingsvill chamber of commerc is dr. steve altman , current presid of texa a & i. dr. altman also serv two year as presid of a miami-area chamber of commerc while presid of florida intern univers . 
 dure more than five decad as a lawyer , the vigor 74-year-old has earn widespread respect and admir in other job as well. as a state prosecutor in new york , he pursu organ crime in the late 1930s , serv as a feder judg from 1954 to 1957 , and was deputi attorney general for the final three year of the eisenhow administr . 
 sandra had sat down by the thinnest boy , who wore a small christ-lik beard round the rim of his jaw , and was fondl his hand . the other boy stare at his shoe , smoke in sharp puff , and june saw with astonish that he was the assist who serv at the cold meat counter at the grocer 's in the main street . 
 sinc mr. maxwel 's not go to retir soon , i guess he was seek other opportunities. '' mr. cahouet is the fourth presid to serv under mr. maxwel , succeed mark riedi , who left in juli 1986 after onli 18 month . 
 john l. lesher , a senior execut with paris-bas manag consult mar & co. , was name presid and chief execut offic of home group financi servic inc. , a unit of home group inc. , the new york-bas insur hold compani said. mr. lesher also will serv as senior vice presid for plan at the parent compani . 
 now his hero was more fascin than ever ; he had seen foreign place and could tell tale of ship and battl . lawrenc had serv on the flagship and was the friend of a real admir . 
 there is no snow in ... andr malraux , the grand old man of french literatur and de gaull 's minist of cultur , is the veteran of mani a guerrilla action : the chines revolut , the spanish civil war , and the french resist dure world war ii. now malraux has decid to put his experi into use with an offer to serv as a soldier in the rank of the bengali separatist of bangla desh . 
 this object would make adl system one of the top 15 softwar hous . presid of the new compani is dr. bernard w. romberg , who was respons for mani of adl 's largest system implement project and most recent serv as head of the inform technolog group in adl 's manag scienc divis . 
 he organ the montgomeri welfar leagu to help poor peopl get on relief . he establish the first uso club for negro in montgomeri and serv as chairman of the local naacp for more than two decad . 
 `` i 'd work all my life and i 'd never stop to smell the flower , '' say mr. gluck , who began his career hold down job as a waiter and launch a small advertis specialti busi while he was a student at the wharton school at the univers of pennsylvania. in the 10 year between monogram and caesar world , mr. gluck say he did almost everyth he intend to do when he retir , includ learn to ski , improv his tenni game , take extend vacat to europ with his wife and children , and serv on various educ committe . 
 the tribe , those that were left , show that they still had a power to help themselv if they were encourag to use it . in world war ii , about 25,000 indian serv in the arm forc . 
 some say that de gaull feel about franc the way ( historian jule ) michelet felt about joan of arc yet michelet never consid himself to be joan of arc . the case is inde without preced , particular sinc here the hero serv as his own historian . 
 the surpris decis of donald regan to propos increas corpor tax by $ 150 billion , for instanc , could hard have been expected. mr. regan , after all , was the former chairman of merril lynch & co. and serv as treasuri secretari under a presid who onc said there is no justif for tax corpor incom . 
 in day gone by the chang at sea were measur by centuri . an offic who serv under christoph columbus in the santa maria would not have experienc too much troubl if he came aboard the constitut 300 year later . 
 the american stock exchang nomin committe propos eight new candid to serv on the exchang 's 25-member board of governor , and renomin two current board member . 
 david l. winn , a physician , was name to the board , succeed j. eugen stubb , former the softwar compani 's chief financi offic and senior vice presid , financ and administration. dr. winn serv on the compani 's board between 1977 and 1984 and is a son of the compani 's founder and brother of it presid . 
 in recruit mr. cohen , data access issu him warrant to buy one million unissu common share at 10 cent and addit warrant for 2.5 million share at $ 1 each. a spokesman for data access said mr. cohen , the compani 's control sharehold , sold 1.8 million of his 2.6 million common share to phoenix financi corp. , where mr. ackerman serv as chairman and chief execut . 
 he carri picket sign befor he pick up his first set of tool as an apprentic at the heidrich tool & die co. in oak park , mich. even so , mr. yokich is part of the new wave of uaw leadership -- the first group that did n't serv under walter p. reuther , a uaw co-found and presid for more than three decad . 
 regenc said that joseph e. boon , who was presid and chief execut offic as well as chairman , has resigned. mr. boon , 50 year old , declin to comment , but the compani said he agre to serv as a consult seek buyer for regenc 's consum busi . 
 mr. henkel and lawrenc white , both appoint to the three-memb bank board nov. 7 after congress adjourn without act on their nomin , were renomin friday. becaus the senat was n't in session when the two men were appoint , they were abl to serv without confirm . 
 i even got to play a small role onc as a priest in de sica 's bicycl thief . in all , i serv as an assist on 58 film . 
 mr. conabl said he will appoint a senior offic to a new posit in charg of coordin program for heavili indebt countries. appoint of the offici , who also will serv as a `` financi intermediari '' in packag credit from the world bank and commerci bank , signal a new emphasi at the world bank on lend to help develop countri deal with overal debt problem . 
 he was an earli and vigor critic of the court-pack plan , and final with the come of world war ii , he fought the presid on the repeal of the arm embargo and oppos u.s. effort to rearm the alli . senat wheeler serv continu in the unit state senat from 1928 to 1947 . 
 yasser arafat was reelect as the leader of a reunifi plo by the 340-member palestinian nation council , which end a six-day meet in algiers. terrorist abu abba , who is want in the 1985 hijack of the achill lauro , was reelect to serv `` provision '' on the plo 's govern board , sourc said . 
 the exchang said that a committe will be appoint by the merc board to hear charg of violat of these propos and to monitor trade under the new rules. the merc also propos that group member not be allow to serv on the same disciplinari or pit committe . 
 eventu , there were over six thousand document case of impress , and the number may have been as great as ten thousand by 1812 . certain , more american serv in the british navi dure the period than the unit state navi requir for it total manpow . 
 new exec vp donald stoke ' background is less well-round , but enterpris : he develop a coin-oper shoeshin machin that becam franchis nation , and at one time was a partner of the chicken delight man , a. l. tunick ... . after two year as board chairman of data network corp. , late rechristen mega system , inc. , h. l. meckler has resign , no reason given , no replac yet ... . anoth resign for person reason is c. r. hall , presid of appli time share , inc. , a bunker-ramo affili in villanova , pa. he is succeed by guy e. warner , a bunker-ramo man , as is new board chairman frank c. casilla . both also have long ge manag experi , and casilla also serv with rand . 
 georg n. friedland , 79 , the retir chairman of exet intern corp. , a privat boston hold compani , was appoint chairman. david golder , also 79 and the retir execut vice presid of exet , was appoint to the board and will serv as compani secretari . 
 `` we may not satisfi all congression critic of busi , but we think that most corpor and major account firm will recogn the need for these chang , '' ad mr. treadway , a former secur and exchang commiss member who has just been name general counsel of painewebb inc. , a secur firm. in one of the most sweep chang , the panel urg that the sec be given more power by congress to impos fine , bring ceas and desist proceed , and bar or suspend violat from serv as corpor offic or director . 
 attain the second level mean a $ 2,000 rais , while the third level is worth $ 3,000 a year. in addit to their regular classroom duti , teacher at the second and third level serv as mentor for new teacher and help to develop instruct materi . 
 mr. sawicz , 39 year old , will succeed anthoni j. hanlon , 46 , who the compani said has resign to `` devot his time to privat interests. '' mr. hanlon will continu to serv as a consult to the compani and it princip subsidiari , discount corp. of new york . 
 when they reach the bank of the gray don , warrior were wait with a flat barg to float the sack of food and powder down the river to the fort. becaus he want to join his brother , stenka went on the massiv barg , take his black hors with him , although he was still too young to serv in a cossack regiment . 
 he 's our new brigadier. upon my recommend , and that of general heintzelman , general kearni has select you to serv on his staff . 
 the writer serv in 1980-81 on the depart of energi 's senior advisori board . 
 iran provid arm merchant manuch ghorbanifar with near $ 87 million -- substanti more than previous indic -- while he serv as the main middleman for u.s. arm sale to iran , accord to the tower commiss report . 
 as the financi oblig of the khoo famili and nation bank grew , such borrow escal sharpli , rise to $ 228 million at the end of last octob from $ 129 million at the end of 1985 and just $ 32 million at the end of 1983. document obtain in the nation bank investig also shed new light on one of the central mysteri of the affair : the close but enigmat relationship between the khoo famili and brunei 's rule royal famili , head by 40-year-old sultan hassan bolkiah , who has serv as both monarch and prime minist sinc brunei 's independ in 1984 . 
 a few , exempt from the draft for one reason or anoth , went to china where they serv in the friend ambul unit , convoy medic suppli and later offer war relief on both side of the chines civil war . other serv in india , where the afsc was ask to help dure the famin of 1944 . 
 by this time , there was a solid foundat stock of kennel-rais canaan , mani of which were train to guid the blind , a servic they perform today . serv in other capac , canaan guard israel 's border and factori , and protect home and children . 
 the busi system sector had a loss of $ 30 million last year on revenu of $ 272.3 million. john n. lemast , contel 's presid and chief execut offic , will serv as act execut for the busi system sector . 
 a fierc propon of the right of the peopl , an adversari to all that would vest govern in the hand of a few , he suffer more defeat of his individu propos than almost ani other deleg , yet in the end his larger idea prevail . after his work at the convent , he help write pennsylvania 's second constitut , serv in congress and on the feder suprem court , where he deliv sever pace-set opinion . 
 at one annual meet , he told sharehold he had forgotten his note and then sent someon back to the offic to get them. he succeed his father as chairman and chief execut in 1984 , though the senior mr. lewi , 66 , continu to serv as chairman of the board 's execut committe and goe to his headquart offic everi day . 
 one possibl is the saarland 's governor , oskar lafontain , who favor a loosen of germani 's tie to the north atlant treati organization. anoth name mention frequent is volker hauff , a member of parliament who serv in the cabinet of former chancellor helmut schmidt . 
 houghton mifflin co. said that michael janeway , who resign last year as editor of the boston globe , will becom execut editor of the textbook publish 's trade and refer division. mr. janeway , current a fellow at harvard univers 's john f. kennedi school , serv as special assist to secretari of state cyrus vanc from 1977 to 1978 and had been manag editor of the atlant magazin . 
 the presidenti appoint tower commiss , describ what it call a general `` insensit to legal issu '' at the highest level of the reagan administr , challeng some of mr. mees 's legal conclus and activities. `` if he ( mr. mees ) had ani doubt at all '' about the legal or proprieti of certain deal with iran , `` he should have gotten a formal legal opinion '' from the justic depart 's offic of legal counsel , say former attorney general griffin bell , a democrat who serv in the carter administr . 
 from 1958 to 1984 , local 560 was boss by mr. provenzano , a reput member of the vito genoves crime gang , and his two brother , salvator and nunzio provenzano. the three are current in feder prison for crime commit while serv as local 560 offic . 
 mr. elliot move to mbia from his posit as vice presid of financi guarante for aetna. john butler , now presid of municip issuer servic corp. , will serv as vice chairman of mbia . 
 head of the western confer sinc 1958 , he has been appoint by the last two governor of california to a number of state board . for a time he serv as a regent of the univers of california . 
 u.s. state depart offici for two year have unsuccess strain to make uno power enough to control the nicaraguan democrat forc , known by the spanish initi fdn , the main contra army. alfonso robelo , a moder contra and one of two member of the current uno director , say he wo n't serv in a new seven-man director expect to be form within three week if conserv adolfo calero , who resign from the current director in februari , take a seat on the same panel . 
 befor i reach the age of 17 , i gain much practic experi sail on lake constanc , where i learn to handl near everi kind of sailboat from a nutshel to a 60-foot , two-mast yacht . at 18 i serv a six-month hitch as an apprentic aboard a schooner sail the baltic and north sea . 
 the commiss appoint by the faculti of medicin includ sever lead figur from differ scienc . one was benjamin franklin , then seventy-eight year old and serv as the american ambassador to franc . 
 member of the chamber of deputi are elect on the basi of popul , just as member of our hous of repres are. they serv for term of three year ; in our hous of repres member serv for term of two years. s watch a tv program in which the presid of the unit state appear . 
 those not in written form were given verbal by the various chairmen or committe members. name were then submit to serv on the nomin committe for the annual convent . 
 ex-treasuri secretari robert anderson admit in feder court to sever tax-evas scheme and illeg oper an offshor bank. anderson serv under eisenhow . 
 after be releas from a cuban prison , he join the unit state navi as a midshipman . like his famous father , porter first serv in the constel . 
 mr. stursberg , 66 , relinquish the chairman 's job and becam a compani director in 1986 so that he could devot more time to other busi ventures. in addit to his new post , mr. ciasullo , 50 , will continu to serv as presid and chief oper offic of the maker of comput workstat , printer and relat softwar and equip . 
 besid deal with chronic deficit in past year , she also has had to contend with labor discord as execut director of consum union , the nonprofit foundat that publish the magazine. a lawyer , ms. karpatkin has held the post sinc 1974 ; she previous serv as the foundat 's outsid attorney . 
 you know the languag , loui , and the kikuyu trust you. will you serv on the committe ? 
 `` but realli , it 's such silli putty. '' nonetheless , the emphasi on number has chang the way congress work by diminish the influenc of the author committe , on which most member serv . 
 the british influenc is also appar in detroit 's new `` beat command `` project , launch sever month ago in a heavili negro area with a crime rate that is abov the city-wid averag and rising. instead of be constant shift about , two dozen policemen will serv for an entir year in a rough one-square-mil area contain about 15,000 peopl . 
 mattel inc. said raymond w. ferri , who serv on an execut committe that briefli ran the toy compani , resign as execut vice presid for strateg plan . 
 `` some of the most sleazi charact you can imagin were bilk peopl through this ad hoc process. '' among other thing , mr. walsh and congression investig have document and testimoni indic that col. north and robert owen , who serv as a courier to contra group , were awar of , and appar condon , plan to secret siphon off profit to some contra support . 
 of those who serv in vietnam onli a minor bore the full brunt . 
 then mr. kirbi end the day by plunk himself in front of the televis to take in a basketbal game and an america 's cup yacht race. other chief execut may feel lost away from the hustl and bustl of corpor life , but not mr. kirbi , who retir in 1983 after serv nine year as chairman of the electr equip and broadcast concern . 
 but there was one occas , at least , that stand out in my memori as both excit and unique. in septemb 1960 i was ask to serv on the american deleg to the interparliamentari union , which was meet in tokyo that year . 
 he is onli the fourth presid of the compani , found by w.c. coleman in 1900 , and the third famili member to hold the position. mr. jone , who serv as presid for 14 year through 1985 , was the onli non-famili member to serv in that post . 
 did you know that it take as long or longer for a pilot to qualifi for command of an aircraft as it doe for a doctor to qualifi for practic ? seven year is the averag time a co-pilot serv befor he wear the covet four stripe of a captain . 
 `` we could walk into ani night club , `` said muzz patrick , `` and the patron would stand and cheer . `` thirteen ranger serv in world war ii , virtual ruin the franchis . 
 sir geoffrey is a good diplomat and he doe n't come right out and say that one of the good thing about lord blake is that he would be content to be a figurehead. to make his point , he mention the time lord curzon serv as chancellor . 
 `` i never heard that. do you think he would consent to serv as my `` friend , '' sir ? '' 
 atlant richfield co. said john a. gavin , the former u.s. ambassador to mexico who becam an arco vice presid last june , is resign to head a spanish-languag communic company. mr. gavin , 55 year old and an actor befor he serv as mexican ambassador from 1981 to 1986 , was name presid of univisa satellit communic , a close held concern base in los angel . 
 as previous report , the transact was financ with $ 160 million in long-term debt from a group of bank , a bridg loan by donaldson lufkin , and equiti invest by hick & haa and donaldson lufkin. palco acquisit co. , which was form to acquir palco , also includ jame n. mill , a hick & haa partner who will serv as chairman , presid and chief execut offic of the compani . 
 manuel a. estrella , presid of the compani , which is known as pnoc , and other on the six-memb board met with govern propon of the denation plan led by vicent paterno , a philippin senat and former pnoc president. under mr. paterno 's direct , the board had accept the govern 's plan and had begun to activ court foreign investor , includ british petroleum plc and kuwait petroleum corp. onli two member of the current board serv dure mr. paterno 's tenur as pnoc presid . 
 mr. fisk , who was in washington yesterday for testimoni on robert bork 's nomin to the suprem court , declin to comment. he was appoint manhattan u.s. attorney by presid ford and serv in that post until 1980 , person tri case against heroin traffick leroy `` nicki '' barn and labor figur anthoni m. scotto . 
 master command oliv hazard perri , who commiss the make of the flag in a frontier settlement on lake eri , was not one of prebl 's boy , although he might well have claim kinship through associ , as did the philadelphia offic . a lieuten in the adam of richard morri ' squadron , perri had miss serv under prebl by the narrowest of margin when he decid to go home in the fall of 1803 . 
 last year alon , three democrat left the senat budget committe ; four of the six democrat who join the panel are newcom to the senate. one of those freshmen , timothi wirth of colorado , previous serv on the hous budget committe , and he onc remark : `` the pleasur i felt when i got on the budget committe was exceed onli by the pleasur i had get off it . '' 
 he know veri well what real censorship is and how danger it is. he has been a member of iti and now serv as it presid becaus he understand it crucial role is in inspir exchang between artist and in protect them . 
 the nsc is part and parcel of the white hous structur , and decis on nation secur can not be made in a domestic-polici vacuum. while serv as head of the nsc , mr. kissing maintain , for exampl , that presid nixon 's approach to an arms-control agreement was total abov domestic-polici consider . 
 the roman made better use of their cattl than did the greek , and the roman herd provid food , labor and hide . chees was a major food in the roman diet and was introduc into germani , england , franc , switzerland and the low countri by roman serv in those land . 
 consid richard m. nixon . he serv as congressman and senat from california , then was twice elect vice-presid , distinguish himself as an activ particip in govern , therebi bring a new dimens to the offic . 
 in addit , carl watson , current execut vice presid , market , will becom presid and chief oper officer. the elder mr. noland had also serv as presid , and there had been no offici design chief oper offic . 
 they work close with two other key men : william j. quinn , sixty-on , a lawyer and former f. b. i. man who follow menk into the presid of the burlington and is now chairman of the burlington northern 's closest competitor , the milwauke road , and robert w. down , fifty-eight , budd 's execut vice presid . a brilliant oper offic , down was respons for plan and coordin the detail of the merger , serv on a master committe that monitor progress . 
 pittston 's stock fell 50 cent to close at $ 12.875 in composit new york stock exchang trading. robin h.h. wilson , presid of burlington air express , will serv as presid of both wtc and burlington in a combin unit , pittston said . 
 mr. atkin 's lawyer say that the trade did entail risk , but he argu that even if the juri found they did not entail such risk , they should have been consid legitim nonetheless. mr. moss , who from 1978 to 1980 serv as deputi chief of the crimin divis at the u.s. attorney 's offic in the southern district of new york , also question the reliabl of the four men who testifi against mr. atkin . 
 `` it is , inde , frustrat , '' rep. cheney says. but he add , `` i will die a happi man if i get to serv two year in the major in the hous . '' 
 they made strang claim in the hope of be sent immedi to the front . rockwel and thaw swore that they had serv in the mexican armi and when their corpor later comment on their inexperi at drill , they inform him with straight face that mexican fought onli guerrilla warfar . lincoln chatkoff , of maplewood , mass. , solemn swore that he had serv five year with the salvat armi . 
 the ap report that mrs. whittlesey telephon rep. henri hyde , who in turn talk to reps. dan mica and olympia snow , who serv on the investig subcommitte . 
 anoth fast-ris young offic was also up for promot in 1969 . colonel robert m. montagu serv as a deputi for pacif to the militari command in saigon , and had volunt to stay mani year beyond his normal tour of duti . 
 other who were name yesterday were : william mack , a build contractor and chairman of the javit convent center ; nora brede , head of the shoreham oppon coalit , a citizen ' group work to keep shoreham from ever oper ; irv like , an attorney who has repres long island counti against lilco on rate-increas request ; richard kessel , the state consum protect board director ; john cana , presid of north fork bancorp in east morich , n.y. , and vincent tese , the state 's econom develop director. mr. mack will serv as chairman . 
 tierco said it hope anoth investor will put up at least $ 15 million to join the partnership. joseph m. murphi , tierco chairman and chief execut offic , will serv as chairman and a princip of valu investor . 
 ed own 51 % of nippon ed and nippon inform 49 % , an ed spokesman said. yukitsugu shimokawa , presid of nippon inform , will serv as presid of nippon ed , and bob barker , manag director of ed japan , as execut vice presid . 
 in everi firm with more than five job , the worker elect a council by secret ballot. most council number anywher from 15 to 120 member , depend on the size of the enterpris , and they serv for two year . 
 the standard measur of the qualiti of a lower court judg 's perform is the frequenc with which his decis are overturned. judg bork , who has serv on the circuit court for the district of columbia for five year , has written about 100 major opinion and none has been overrul . 
 none could be more typic than a likabl , beard young man with long hair and a gentl face name tim butz . tim had enlist in the air forc out of high school , and had serv with distinct in vietnam . 
 `` i just ca n't go by the courthous without feel depress and frustrat , '' say a los angel man. he recent serv 10 work day on juri duti without be chosen for a singl case . 
 an attempt was made to protect women from heavi work that might keep them from have healthi children . in the war year women serv in the armi , but almost exclus behind the front , as our own wac 's did . 
 the skill occup are also known as the `` craft , `` and therefor skill worker are also call craftsmen. becaus of their addit train , skill worker serv under less supervis than semiskil worker , and they may be call upon to exercis more judgment than the latter . 
 lawrenc walsh , the iran-contra independ counsel , immedi said he will seek permiss to file paper oppos the govern 's views. and fred wertheim , head of the citizen ' lobbi common caus , assert that the justic depart 's posit `` could danger undermin all of the ongo crimin investig that involv numer individu who have serv at the highest level '' of the administr . 
 some offici said they believ mr. carlucci 's and lt. gen. powel 's tie to mr. weinberg may mean the council staff will align itself more close to the defens depart 's hard-lin posit on arm control and east-west relations. but offici close to mr. carlucci said the new nation secur advis is determin to serv as an honest broker between the pentagon , the state depart , the cia and other agenc . 
 mr. neeli could n't be reach at work or home for comment. he has been a smith employe for 22 year , serv as chief execut sinc 1976 and chairman sinc 1977 . 
 mr. roman , who will retain his post as presid , succeed william e. phillip , who remain chairman of the parent. the compani name to it board ian hunt , chairman and chief execut offic of research intern , which the compani acquir in januari , and hugh parker , who serv on sever board and was manag director of the british unit of mckinsey & co. , a management-consult firm , until he retir in 1983 . 
 howev , he is consid more of a promot and fund-rais than an academic. he is a west point graduat and combat veteran of the korean war , and serv from 1970 to 1972 as presid nixon 's assist secretari of state for congression relat . 
 rais on a farm in palmyra , michigan , he went to work in the firm 's chicago offic in 1948 and rose to the rank of partner in eight year ; ordinarili , it take about a dozen year to get that far . befor becom chief execut , he serv for eight year as head of the cleveland offic . 
 at the centr he was respect not becaus he was dictatori which he is but becaus he was dynam and competent. he was equal love for his big-heart natur , and everyon was infinit proud to serv under his command . 
 it was soviet presid andrei gromyko , dub `` mr. nyet '' when he serv as foreign minist , who `` onc warn us that behind mr. gorbachev 's nice smile ' lie teeth of steel , ' '' one analyst note . 
 associ of chairman paul volcker prais mr. johnson 's thoughtfulness. he is also an oft-ment candid to succeed mr. volcker if the fed chief is n't reappoint to anoth four-year term , or declin to serv again , when his current term expir in august . 
 that is doubt , sinc he claim to be onli an antropologo , a consider lesser status to the experienc indian . so mani indian have serv as inform that , in one state at least , there are joke that anthropolog is the third biggest industri after oil and beer . 
 after the first year i was the onli communist member until 1936 , when clarenc hathaway was ad , to substitut for me when i was unavail . dr. harri f. ward , of the union theolog seminari , becam chairman in 1935 and serv until the war . 
 despit his height of 6 feet 5 inch , which appear taller becaus of his erect postur , mr. pearson cut a low profil here , make him an ideal repres for the publicity-shi mellons. dure the 1970s , he serv on the board of each of the mellon ' `` big four '' compani headquart in downtown pittsburgh : mellon bank , gulf oil corp. , aluminum co. of america and kopper co . 
 mr. momayez-zadeh , 31 , who was vice presid of financ , also will serv as treasur and continu as a director , equinox said. mr. sach , who will serv as a consult to the compani , said he left voluntarili and will retir . 
 a former vice chairman of e.f. hutton group inc. , mr. shad has been known as an ardent deregul who help to streamlin sec operations. he serv beyond the end of his five-year sec term last june in part to overse the agenc 's stepped-up effort against insid trade . 
 mr. abdnor , a 63-year-old republican , was defeat for reelect in november. he serv one term in the senat , have defeat democrat sen. georg mcgovern in 1980. previous , mr. abdnor serv eight year in the hous . 
 in his church bulletin he express his belief that what the world need was `` the triumphant spirit of human courag and sacrifice. `` when the war broke out , clark pole was determin at first to serv as an ordinari soldier . 
 when green rush up to see what had caus the hitch , he found himself confront , at the veri outset of his oper , by a stagger problem . have serv some time at fort klamath , he was no stranger to these sudden , low-li plateau fog that might last an hour or all day . 
 `` well , i ll send you over to monticello with a note to general sheridan . see that he serv at the point with `` old mud `` walker , i 'm certain he shall do all in his power to get you exchang on my recommend . 
 mr. cahouet acquir a reput as a trouble-shoot and turnaround execut dure a two-year stint at crocker nation corp. , where he help restor profit to the san francisco bank. he serv as presid and chief execut at crocker until it was acquir by well fargo & co. in may 1986 . 
 `` you 'd be more use as an interpret than as a soldier , `` an offic told him. `` i ll serv wherev need , `` rubinstein replied. within a short time he was request to serv as translat for alli headquart . 
 morgan olmstead , a brokerag hold compani , is base in los angeles. mr. schnabel is serv as the u.s. ambassador to finland . 
 the practic , of cours , has a vener history. alexand haig rose from colonel to four-star general while serv as henri kissing 's deputy. lt. gen. brent scowcroft also serv as mr. kissing 's deputi . 
 the deputi chief resign in a huff and his post was fill by stan patt , anoth rank-and-fil fireman who was doddr 's junior by three day , befor compulsori retir . with 420 men in the depart , serv an averag term of thirty-f year from recruit to retir , the averag tenur of the chief 's offic becam one month , with a similar rapid turnov in all rank . 
 three year after marco polo arriv home , the fierc trade rivalri between venic and genoa broke into open war . serv as a `` gentleman command `` of a galley , marco and his ship were captur , and he was thrown into a genoes jail . 
 i came home heartsick at what our parti had done to itself. and when they ask me to serv as an elector i want no part of it . 
 and even great increas influenc in washington for the nation 's entrepreneur still is n't like to match that garner by the chairman of a fortun 500 compani when he walk into a congressman 's offic , say eddi mahe , a republican polit consultant. `` a more direct rout would be to get one of their member to serv as financ chairman for everi candid run for congress . 
 realiz that his scheme would soon be uncov , arnold fled his west point home minut befor georg washington was due for breakfast. after serv as a british offic for the durat of the revolut , arnold made his way to london . 
 the follow summer , at the age of eighty-seven , he resign his post as chancellor , though he remain a member of the bundestag until his death four year later . adenau was succeed by ludwig erhard , also a christian democrat , who had serv veri effici as minist of econom and prove himself both abl and popular in western europ . 
 candid would be select for vice-presid , treasur and two directors. select to serv on the nomin committe were : maxin schrader , chairman , tom scanlan , joyc hoffa , jim brennan , ingwald gunderson , mari olson , and joe virden . 
 he said a five-memb search committe for a new chairman and chief execut held it first meet yesterday. mr. pearson is also current serv as chief execut . 
 presid reagan name deputi nation secur advis alton keel to becom ambassador to the north atlant treati organ in brussels. mr. keel , who serv briefli as interim nation secur advis follow vice adm. john poindext 's resign last month , would succeed ambassador david abshire. mr. keel becam deputi to mr. poindext last juli , after serv as the execut director to the presidenti commiss on the challeng shuttl explos . 
 but they were onli the open move in what may be an awkward courtship ritual between the presid and the chairman. steven robert , who serv as mr. volcker 's assist until join peat marwick main & co. as a partner this spring , said : `` my best guess is , he will stay if the presid ask him . 
 besid a possibl sale , hbo said it will also consid spin off one or more of it oper divis or subsidiari , sell certain asset , buy back stock and recapitalizing. donald l. luca and john m. clark jr. , both of whom are outsid director , will serv on the special committe . 
 paulssen himself , seibold continu proud , was a veteran of the undersea forc . he had serv aboard a u-boat in 1937 in the intern control organ dure the spanish civil war , cruis the mediterranean and the bay of biscay . 
 that would return mr. taft to a posit of leadership from which he has slowli been push by the board. in juli , the 46-year-old mr. taft was name vice chairman after serv as presid and chief oper offic for more than 10 year . 
 dr. c. a. christi has been name presid of a wang subsidiari , phi comput servic , inc. , softwar consult and system market with a data center in arlington , mass. he was the design of telebatch remot batch process servic ... . donald j. birmingham will be respons for new hardwar and softwar product as vp at data path , sunnyval , calif. , manufactur of sourc data collect system for industri . he was in at the found of dpi in 1965 , previous serv with ge in phoenix . 
 later today , a white friend from my colleg day telephon from new jersey , mrs. meyers. would i serv as master of ceremoni at a parad in celebr of a worthi caus ? 
 while republican nation chairman dure the waterg scandal , he remain a nixon apologist until a few day befor the presid 's resignation. and after critic supply-sid econom in 1980 as `` voodoo econom , '' he swallow his misgiv to serv as vice presid in the reagan administr , and there is n't ani record that he privat protest as the administr enact it supply-sid program . 
 despit certain reserv , appel judg winter said the settlement was reason becaus `` the weight of present scientif evid doe not establish that personnel in vietnam were injur by agent orange. '' signific , the appeal court approv an unusu `` compensation-bas '' distribut plan that allow veteran who serv in area in which agent orang was spray and who are disabl to collect benefit to a maximum $ 12,000 -- with smaller payment to survivor of such veteran . 
 `` so success is the school that hank is now plan a $ 2^3-million addit . he has serv under six presid as an advis on the handicap , and written seven book on various phase of his work . 
 littl mac did not live in the field with his men but at a palati mansion he had rent in washington. he chose as staff offic aristocrat foreign who had volunt to serv in the union armi among them princ salm-salm of saxoni ; the comt de pari and two son of the princ de joinvill . 
 some forti thousand men came as volunt for the intern brigad , though there were never more than eighteen thousand in spain at ani one time. and mani other came to serv as doctor , nurs , and technician . 
 i had a wife , eileen , and two children . my practic had suffer slight as a result of world war ii , when i serv as a dental offic in the south african medic corp , but it was improv and the futur seem assur . 
 a tiff with washington , when nerv of both were fray , was quick follow by renew understand between them and entrust of colonel hamilton with captur of the last british redoubt at yorktown . notabl figur who serv dure the revolut in legislatur , execut offic , and diplomat assign complain that the societi of the cincinnati set up a presum prefer of patriot for those in the armi . 
 mr. proxmir would presid over confirm hear for mr. henkel if he is renomin to the bank board by presid reagan. becaus he was appoint while the senat was n't in session , mr. henkel serv without confirm . 
 the maker of weld steel tube and gray iron cast said the appoint follow the death , earlier this year , of vincent d. hofmann , who had been chairman. bernard hofmann , 52 year old , who succeed his uncl as chairman , also former serv as presid . 
 a bain spokesman declin to say whether sir jack had been told , say it is a `` privat matter. '' the bain spokesman said olivi roux , a bain consult who serv as a guin director and it chief of financi strategi , remain on bain 's payrol . 
 what is known is that 15 copi were publish at his own expens and all vanish after he took offic . pompidou 's express posit is a predict one : `` the presid of a nation should not write a book while he is serv in offic . `` 
 mr. johnson 's rise has been remark fast. he serv as a green beret and armi ranger in southeast asia befor receiv econom degre from troy state univers in alabama and florida state univers . 
 he is vice-presid and general manag of the skelton oil compani , a subsidiari of gulf oil corpor . he is a mechan engin from purdu and serv in the navi in world war ii . 
 among his mani travel , he went to russia and met lenin and trotski and address the third international . he serv as an associ editor of the liber and the mass . 
 the court 's rule revers crimin contempt convict of five person accus of infring the trademark of loui vuitton , a french leather good manufacturer. while the suprem court said the court may appoint lawyer to handl the contempt case , the court rule it was improp for the district court to appoint the lawyer for loui vuitton to serv as the prosecutor in the contempt case . 
 custer was anxious to speak , but mcclellan command the scene . `` i am surpris and griev to hear such sentiment from my own boy : from you who have serv with the armi of the potomac . 
 mr. griscom , 37 , former press secretari to senat major leader howard h. baker jr. , will becom presid and chief oper offic of the public affair unit. mr. griscom most recent serv as director of the republican senatori campaign committe . 
 mr. chile is the sixth senat -- and third committe chairman -- to call it quit this year. senat dan evan decid to retir after serv onli four year in the senat . 
 he previous was execut vice presid of lockheed-california. -- r. richard hepp , 64 , who also will serv as general manag of advanc tactic fighter program . 
 at a time when the countri has move into an era of greater and greater public spend , it is more import than ever to examin the process by which project and prioriti evolv and the big chunk of cash get commit . for the over-al design of the mall , governor rockefel turn to wallac k. harrison , who was the co-architect for rockefel center some forti year ago when nelson was serv an apprenticeship in the famili busi . 
 hanfstaengl was never clear as to who was respons and goer dismiss it as a `` joke. `` in a matter of day , he fled germani , and after short intern in england and canada arriv in the u.s. to serv as an intellig analyst for an old harvard schoolmat franklin delano roosevelt . 
 the work of the hous of burgess was done through committe ; citizen ask for what they want or complain about what they did not get . the committe on which washington serv sift all petit , so he plung at onc into import govern work . 
 john r. mccormick , a 28-year-old west pointer from corpus christi , texa . after serv six month as an advis to the south vietnames armi , dure which time he saw consider combat , mccormick ask to be transfer to the 4th cavalri , a part of the 25th divis . 
 they form relationship other than those base exclus on sex . `` they do n't negat sexual attract , `` say cathi bennigson , who conduct the stanford studi while serv with her husband as the faculti resid coupl in a freshman co hous . 
 not accord to persist rumor from bolivia . and most of the invis finger point at general ovando , the presid who was unseat in octob and who now serv as ambassador to spain . 
 mr. shapiro , 48 year old , has manag major transit before. he taught and practic law , and serv in the transport depart befor becom general counsel of an electron compani . 
 he join transco in 1978 as vice presid , financ , after 10 year as an execut at citibank in new york. he has serv as a transco director sinc 1981 and as presid and chief oper offic sinc 1984 . 
 marin went along with the canadian in the raid on diepp , even more disastr than the one on zeebrugge. the forc was form as a group of soldier who could serv aboard warship without get seasick . 
 `` it 's not onli the posit he take but the vehem of them that surpris us , '' say a democrat lawmak who regular oppos mr. wallop. sen. simpson , who serv with mr. wallop in the wyom legislatur , note : `` he burn with a passion unalloy . '' 
 sinc join the agenc in april 1984 , mr. jarrel has influenc sec polici make in numer area , includ corpor takeov regul and oil and gas industri accounting. he has been school in the univers of chicago free-market theori and has serv as a senior economist at lexecon inc. , a chicago consult firm . 
 robert swinarton , who retir six year ago at 54 as vice chairman of dean witter reynold , anoth major brokerag hous , also plan to retir early. but serv as a director or truste was n't part of his plan . 
 will the promis of bargain equiti caus reluct outsid to rush to the boardroom ? vernon jordan , a washington lawyer who serv on the board of eight major corpor -- includ the publish of this newspap , dow jone & co. , which doe n't have such a plan , and corn glass work , which doe -- think the answer is no . 
 to his credit , mr. halloran doe his best to close that breech with a seri of chapter portray the realiti of militari life today. he look at the command in the field , the troop who serv under their command , and the terribl respons of stand watch in troubl spot around the world . 
 despit a trip to the u.s. that prime minist yasuhiro nakason himself character as disappoint , call for the premier 's earli resign are diminishing. inde , polit analyst who onli a month ago said he would be lucki to remain in offic until the june summit meet of industri nation now say mr. nakason most like will serv out his term , which end in octob . 
 in contrast , mr. geisel arriv at carnegi group in 1984 with an entrepreneuri and busi background. with engin degre from arizona state univers , his previous experi includ start an oregon compani that devis inform system for bank and serv as director of manag inform system at pullman inc . 
 he stay activ as a director of the profession golf associ tour , a director of mellon bank -- where , he note , he keep his money -- and chairman of the univers of pittsburgh 's board , among other things. still , he turn down invit to serv on other board , and his current oblig requir onli about 50 meet a year -- far fewer than he had to squeez into his hectic schedul befor retir . 
 accord to wtbs , the produc `` purpos did not recast the role of patriarch ward origin by ( the late ) hugh beaumont. '' june is now a widow , content care for her grandchildren and serv on the mayfield citi council . 
 though econom growth show sign of slow , the u.s. is in the 53rd month of an econom upturn that has absorb vast world export and creat record number of american jobs. `` in term of the fundament , the u.s. economi is veri strong , '' say richard cooper , a harvard econom professor who serv as presid carter 's undersecretari of state for econom affair . 
 he previous was act presid of lockhe aircraft servic , base in ontario. -- kenneth w. cannestra , 56 , who also will serv as general manag of the unit 's georgia divis . 
 they belong to her. i pick them up in 1937 while serv with the u.s. armi . 
 john dali , princip sharehold and chairman of hemdal , would becom chief execut offic of the surviv compani , to be call hemdal film corp. derek gibson , hemdal 's execut vice presid , would becom chief oper officer. irwin rubin , current chairman and chief execut of comput memori , said he wo n't serv as a senior offic of the combin compani . 
 braniff also may revamp it market under mr. foley , the sourc said. mr. foley will serv essenti as a `` caretak '' for braniff until mr. pritzker decid what to do with the airlin , the sourc said . 
 mr. liedtk said he also doe n't intend to delay anoth set of plan -- for his retir -- through year of texaco reorgan proceed , should they stretch that long. mr. liedtk recent announc that he would continu serv as chairman and chief execut past his 65th birthday to guid the compani to conclus of the litig with texaco . 
 a west german court convict a former presidenti secretari of treason after she admit give state secret to a soviet kgb agent. prosecutor said the woman , who serv as secretari to five west german presid , was one of sever `` lone heart spi '' recruit by moscow . 
 `` it is noth , sir , `` lafayett answer in excel english. `` i shall feel well repaid if i can serv under you . '' 
 after a two-year stint in the merchant marin , fuqua proceed natur enough into commerci radio . he serv for a while as the chief engin of a radio station in charleston , south carolina , but he was bedevil by the entrepreneuri itch . 
 `` a tremend number of peopl are call , wait for a long time and do n't get select , '' he adds. on a typic day in new york 's borough of manhattan , about 2,000 peopl are serv state and local juri duti , but fewer than 10 % of them ever get on a juri , say norman goodman , the counti commission of juror . 
 member of the coffe , sugar & cocoa exchang elect gerald p. clanci , cocoa purchas director of m & m/mar , as chairman of the 105-year-old exchange. mr. clanci , whose two-year term start immedi , succeed howard c. katz , who was elect to serv on the exchang 's board for an addit two year . 
 each year the institut produc a show. dick was recruit to write the song , and occasion even to serv as stage director . 
 lyda hunt , one of h.l. hunt 's former wive , die in 1955. one of her son , william herbert , serv as executor of her will . 
 `` i do n't think the voter are sway too much '' by endors , say david moor , a univers of new hampshir polit scientist. for his part , gov. sununu , who will serv as mr. bush 's new hampshir chairman , said he decid to endors the vice presid becaus he was the onli candid who `` understand the subtleti '' of foreign affair , an area the governor believ has heighten import in the wake of the arms-sal scandal . 
 they were use , accord to the contemporari report soviet women in the war , `` least frequent of all in actual arm combat . `` main they serv on the industrial-agricultur front . 
 on the other hand , the law was a rather casual mistress in the eighties. while studi , he also had time to serv as a court report for the cincinnati commerci . 
 john koehler , white hous communic director , is expect to announc at a news confer today that he is leav the post after serv just a week , a white hous offici said . 
 now what ? '' help mr. atwood answer that question will be ed 's mr. alberth , who has serv as presid of the unit sinc may of this year . 
 the commit will continu under john h. filer , 47 , who took over last month as chairman and chief execut offic from retir olcott d. smith , 65 . a graduat of depauw and yale law school , filer practic law and then serv as a republican state senat in connecticut befor join aetna in 1958 as an assist counsel . 
 in the previous year , coopervis earn $ 35.2 million , or $ 1.69 a share. mr. koffel , 47 , who most recent serv as execut vice presid , coopervis usa , will continu to be respons for domest oper . 
 he ad that mr. neeli was n't ask to resign. mr. neeli will still serv as a director and consult . 
 captain william washington was twenty-four year old at that time and had alreadi made himself an unmatch reput for courag and dare . william washington serv under hugh mercer , whom he ador , and who regard him much as an adopt son . 
 these paper drew the interest of sir nevil mott , a pioneer in solid-st physic and director of britain 's fame cavendish laboratori , where other basic work on amorph materi was go on. mott subsequ visit ovshinski 's laboratori and agre to serv as an unpaid consult . 
 `` it 's sort of the end of an era , '' said one compani execut and associ of mr. taft. in juli , mr. taft , 46 year old , was name vice chairman after serv as presid and chief oper offic for more than 10 year . 
 at the time of the announc , mr. ruffi said he plan to stay with emhart. mr. ruffi serv in nine differ line and staff posit at emhart , rang from treasur to presid of the unit machineri group . 
 in an earlier transact , energi partner acquir the net asset of may energi partner ltd. , an oil and gas limit partnership manag by may. may petroleum is 44 % control by craig hall , the dalla real estat investor who serv as it chairman and chief execut offic . 
 tesoro initi declin to financ the ventur , but the relationship did n't end there. mr. morgan 's girlfriend had serv in the bolivian govern and had high-reach connect there with the potenti to help expand tesoro 's domain of foreign oil properti . 
 romney brent , june cochran , betti starbuck , lee strasberg , and libbi holman assum talk or sing parts. philip loeb was call on to be the produc ; herbert field to direct the danc ; harold clurman to serv as stage manag . 
 as we wait in tens expect , the offic disclos our new commands. some of us had been select to serv on destroy , other on minesweep . 
 kohlberg kravi arrang a 1984 leverag buyout of wometco broadcast inc. for about $ 800 million. wometco cabl oper cabl system serv about 362,000 subscrib , primarili in north and south carolina , georgia and louisiana . 
 mr. salamah has been assign to the mission sinc 1978. prosecutor claim that the men use `` doubl bill '' to draw more fund from saudi coffer than were need to fulfil the need of student serv by the mission . 
 two factor were consid in select these institut : ( 1 ) the percent of student enrol from out of state and ( 2 ) the percent of student resid on campus . colleg serv a local student clientel offer mani opportun and vari satisfact . 
 the depart said it was consid enforc action against the two carriers. the depart at the time said it found that mani delta and eastern flight serv atlanta arriv 15 or more minut late . 
 mellon bank corp. said it creat two special asset manag subsidiari to serv corpor and public pension fund , endow and foundat . 
 transport secretari dole grant antitrust immun to airlin serv chicago 's o'har and atlanta 's hartsfield airport . 
 brookhaven say that it has n't discrimin , that demand for lower-incom hous is n't great and that it meet the exist demand. the town also say it zone serv the public by provid for a varieti of single-famili home , condominium and rental . 
 while mani compani have been gear up for the predict boom in data communic dure the 1970 's , at least one compani the raytheon co. of lexington , mass. survey the market and found that it alreadi had the wherewith in-hous to becom a power in the commerci side of the data communic market . there was a problem , howev : the giant electron base firm knew that it data communic capabl was hous larg in raytheon unit that serv militari oper . 
 we believ this innov , made possibl by a special design comput program , will be a major benefit to busi readers. -- faster and even more reliabl deliveri for mani reader through a continu expans of the journal 's 154-citi privat deliveri network , which alreadi serv more than 740,000 journal paid subscrib in 43 state . 
 the investor group includ mark edmiston , former presid of washington post co. 's newsweek unit ; william broyl jr. , a former editor in chief of newsweek magazin ; execut of the magazin 's publish , tvsm inc. , horsham , pa. ; and jack crosbi , an austin , texa , cabl televis investor. the cabl guid , launch six year ago with 2,000 subscrib , current is distribut by 450 cabl system serv 5.5 million of the nation 's about 40 million cabl subscrib . 
 the basic model would cost $ 80 million and could be outfit with engin from either general electr co. of the u.s. or the pratt & whitney divis of unit technolog corp. the md-11 , like the propos airbus a340 , is aim at serv long-dist rout that do n't attract enough traffic to justifi use a 450-seat 747 . 
 judg robert bork contend that his view on antitrust law fulli consid the interest of consum , but argu that some form of antitrust regul do n't promot competition. refer to his 1978 book on antitrust law , the suprem court nomine in his third day of testimoni told the senat judiciari committe , `` my entir book . . . is premis on the question of what best serv consum . . . . '' 
 `` we were n't go anywher near that price for those magazin , '' mr. singerman says. instead , news corp. end up go after ziff-davi 's busi public serv the aviat and travel industri , for which it paid about $ 350 million . 
 he note that american doe n't plan to inaugur it new hub at raleigh/durham until june 15. in choos between delta and pan am for the rout between london and the northeastern u.s. , the judg note that both carrier alreadi serv london . 
 airport concours in cincinnati , chicago and san francisco are come to resembl shopping-mal cluster of eateri , with stand offer taco , omelett and freshly-gril belgian waffl top with fruit. becaus airport traffic ebb and flow and mani custom are press for time , a fast-food format can serv the clientel better than a cafeteria , say kenneth smith , vice presid of plan and busi develop of marriott corp. 's host divis , which is overhaul it restaur and bar at 40 airport . 
 the merger would link two airlin whose oper are concentr on their respect coast and would creat the seventh-largest domest airlin in term of revenu passeng mile , usair group said. usair group , which is base in washington , serv 83 airport but onli about 12 are west of st. louis. psa , base in san diego , serv 29 airport primarili on the west coast , five of which alreadi are serv by usair group . 
 the new arrang debut a week ago , the spongier three-quart of it renam `` the morn program. '' i like the concept , in the abstract serv both us self-proclaim cerebr type who want the news and not the pap , as well as less self-consci driven onlook whose interest lie not in the persian gulf state but in the newest couch , accouch and cacherel . 
 although it is n't like that japanes export will ever play a major role in the overal u.s. trade pictur , he suggest that `` eventu japanes invest in the u.s. could help revit some american export industries. '' ricoh 's effort to avoid anti-dump penalti be levi by the european econom communiti against japanese-mad copier are part of the compani 's overal strategi of build factori in market ricoh serv . 
 the propos rate increas are aim at help the util pay for cost relat to it invest in the palo verd nuclear power plant near phoenix , ariz. el paso electr , which serv 220,000 custom in west texa and southern new mexico , deriv 18 % of total revenu from it new mexico servic area . 
 it say the commiss will appoint a truste to arrang the divestitur if that timet is n't met. alleghani agre that it either will divest safeco of it titl plant in los angel counti within 14 month or dispos of it own interest in a separ titl plant serv the same area . 
 great spring would n't say how long the new product would be tested. the compani expect to `` eventu serv most of new england , '' howev , and then to introduc the product around the countri . 
 the ford motor co. unit , which previous said it plan to increas the number of it branch , said it hope to continu expand in the nation 's second-largest retail at that pace over the next sever years. while bank deregul has caus mani major bank to abandon serv lower and middl incom group , first nationwid 's chairman , anthoni m. frank , said at a news confer here that the expans in retail store `` might be the way you solv the problem of serv just plain folk . '' 
 we also will recal the council of minist , as an institut of the european coal and steel communiti . this council , compris one or more minist from each govern , chang accord to the subject under discuss , serv also the common market and euratom . 
 the fda , in particular it bureau of drug under robert templ , has driven that system to it absurd extreme. the system now serv itself first and peopl later . 
 in addit to privat buse on fix rout , there are about 4,500 flexible-rout minibus , most individu owned. these fulli deregul minibus servic have prove especi success at serv spars popul district without subsidi and act as feeder servic for the subway . 
 marc gregoir , the market director for the 737 program , said 10 other airlin are in `` serious '' discuss about possibl purchas of the new 737 version. boe commerci airplan co. , seattle-bas boe 's commerci aircraft arm , has been canvass airlin for at least a year about such a plane , and it decis to proceed with construct appear to be a move to domin -- with a thorough updat design -- the market for plane with 100 to 130 seat , which is serv by such competitor as fokker n.v. , a dutch concern , and british aerospac . 
 not long ago , local hunt crocodil for cash to supplement their subsist living. today , most river peopl find it more profit and much easier to serv the art and artifact market than to face croc at night on an unforgiv river . 
 softwar assist corp. , ann arbor , mich. for inform : circl 316 on reader card orbit ii is a general-purpos inform retriev system for ibm os / 360 user have at least 256k of memori on a model 40 or larger . the pl/i packag has a basic vocabulari of 11 english command and can be use either in a dedic mode or on a t-s network serv up to 150 on-lin user . 
 consid the best financ black-l ventur ever , the airlin attract some $ 35 million from equit life assur societi of the u.s. after it got seed money from a black-own insur compani and the larg black postal worker union , among others. the compani , which bill itself as the airlin creat to serv busi , has attempt to carv out a nich serv travel who want such frill as roomier seat , gourmet meal and a comfort gate-sid loung with free drink , telephon and newspap . 
 the publish concern is a unit of intern thomson organis ltd. , a toronto-bas publish with interest in travel , oil and gas. `` bank week is edit for a broader audienc than is current serv by our own american banker daili newspap -- for execut throughout the industri who do n't requir the intens of daili coverag , but still need to keep pace with the news and event take place in this fast-chang field , '' said mr. burk . 
 mr. shulman said santa monica , calif.-bas hotel system intern inc. has been incorrect identifi as the hotel 's owner in certain news accounts. he said that hotel system , a reserv and inform servic that serv the dupont plaza , doe n't have ani ownership stake in the hotel or san juan dupont plaza corp . 
 rubbermaid inc. said it will begin construct in april of a 275,000-square-foot manufactur and distribut facil in goodyear , ariz. rubbermaid said the facil , to be use intiti for it home product divis , will help serv it increas custom base in western state . 
 industri sourc indic that a studi , expect to be complet in about two month , probabl would recommend that certain branch be consolid or replac by more cost-effici limited-servic offic or autom teller machines. the limited-servic offic could special in serv small busi or make larg person loan to affluent consum . 
 while mr. weed assert total public expenditur in 1971 for family-plan clinic were $ 11 million , feder govern expenditur alon were $ 65 million in that year. instead of mr. weed 's figur of 300,000 teen-ag client serv in 1971 , family-plan clinic in fact serv 460,000 . 
 the veri qualiti of life is on the line , for educ benefit all of societi , not just those who sit in classroom . meet the challeng will take a posit effort by the colleg and univers and by all the rest of us who are serv . 
 the greater storag capac of the ibm 360-30 , compar to that of the ibm 1050 , and it abil to handl a number of termin oper simultan , give this hardwar configur substanti advantag , as doe the avail of the current ibm 360 in mani school and colleges. ece use an ibm 360-40 or-50 , with still more storag capac and the abil to serv more termin and do other type of work at the same time . 
 houston-bas bredero price , an intern pipe coat concern , is own by van den nieuwenhuyzen group , the netherlands. luken is a diversifi industri concern serv the construct , defens , transport , industri and energi market . 
 the bond were price at 99.125 % to yield 11.1 % . the electr util serv eastern massachusett said proceed will be use to improv it plant and properti . 
 the partnership current has 3.2 million class a unit outstanding. proceed of approxim $ 84.8 million , when combin with $ 9.5 million partnership cash , will be use to acquir a cabl televis system serv independ , mo. , and 16 other suburban kansa citi communiti . 
 the compani said it need the increas to recov expens and to earn a return on it share of the oklaunion power station , a larg coal-fuel generat plant that went into oper last december. the util hold compani said the unit file the request last week with the texa public util commiss and with the citi it serv in central and west texa . 
 a successor to the 46-year-old mr. glick has been select from outsid the compani , genex said , but his name wo n't be disclos until the compani complet a privat placement of it stock. a compani offici describ the successor as have broad experi in the industri market genex serv . 
 of cours , you may see specimen of fine work somewher and then hunt down the produc but i have not had that luck in spain so i have had to concentr on the magnific weather and on the playa ( beach ) and what they have to offer . this is written at the edg of a big reservoir that serv sever big citi of a new england state . 
 not be abl to suppli equip to tokyo , nagoya and eastern japan `` provid us veri littl opportun to sell , '' say stephen l. levi , motorola 's execut vice presid in charg of japan. daini denden 's , and thus motorola 's , failur to win the right to serv the entir japanes market has made american offici here cynic . 
 brock hotel corp. said 34 % of it sharehold who own 10 or fewer common share had tender their hold when it small-lot offer expir yesterday. as previous report , the hotel and restaur concern began the offer last novemb , to reduc administr cost of serv small-lot holder , which number about 8,000 . 
 on the fring of communiti administr there are two committe which exert consider influenc on the shape of communiti polici . the econom and social committe serv the common market and euratom , and the consult committe doe the same for the coal and steel communiti . 
 there are empti store on it main street. it fine modern school serv scarc two-third the number of student they were built to accommod , with each enter class smaller than the one ahead of it . 
 cleveland-cliff inc. said it iron compani subsidiari has put up for sale it 93 % interest in the upper peninsula generat co. , a coal-fir power plant in marquett , mich. cleveland-cliff said bid are expect next month for the plant , which primarili serv the iron ore pellet plant on the marquett rang in michigan . 
 heart of the system is a cdc 3300 in littl rock , ark. ultim it will serv some 300,000 migrant student in 47 state . 
 an extra strong one is call a cyclon and remov roof ; lesser fri will sweep up fallen branch , debri and anyth left about , whirl it around in a wild embrac , abandon it and pranc on it way . bulong , in it heyday , was a fair-siz place serv by school , church , store , an array of pub and a miner ' institut with an import grand piano . 
 in septemb , after three year of struggl , mr. bailey 's three partner left the firm. lsi will continu to serv the few client it drew , but wo n't seek ani new busi , mr. bailey say . 
 term were n't disclosed. the cabl televis oper bought the properti from three close held compani : multi-counti cabl vision inc. , ashland counti cabl servic co. and medway catv inc. jone said the system serv about 9,000 basic subscrib and 5,000 premium subscribers. jone said it current own or manag cabl system serv 33,000 subscrib . 
 emeri 's mr. ball said mr. dorsey did n't solicit his compani 's offer , and that emeri has been consid an offer for purol for the `` last few weeks. '' in the letter to purol 's mr. bradi , emeri said it believ the two compani would `` provid an excel fit '' and that `` the combin will enabl each of us to better serv our exist custom . '' 
 this belief result in the creation of a special govern agenc known as the rural electrif administr rea , for short. the new agenc , which later becam a part of the u.s. depart of agricultur , was author to make loan to local organ to serv peopl who want electr . 
 special vd clinic are be organ to make access to treatment easier and more effect . free clinic serv the street peopl find g. c. second onli to drug overdosag as the major patient problem . 
 he add that it is commit by villag resid as well as by outsiders. deputi polic inspector elson gelfand , the command of the precinct serv greenwich villag , say , `` aid give peopl an excus for violenc . '' 
 the far eastern econom review has suspend it entir distribut in singapor rather than agre to govern restrict slash it circulation. `` as the review is prevent from serv all it singapor reader , it prefer to serv none , '' derek davi , editor of the hong kong-bas week magazin , said in a statement . 
 allen j. volken , execut vice presid , market , said he is n't certain where the initi market effort will be concentrated. `` this will give us an opportun to test a new mean of market bank servic in area not alreadi serv by brick-and-mortar branch , '' he said . 
 chairman , elliott averett , robert h. b. baldwin , william c. blanchard , georg a. brownel , jame carey , richard m. colgat , charl e. cot , agn fowler , henri w. gadsden , edward l. glaser , mrs. h. donald harvey , wallac s. jone , jame h. leatham , ph.d. , richard w. mayer , r. townley paton , m.d. , landon peter , john t. piri , jr. , dorranc sexton , raymond d. stitzer , mrs. frederick r. wierdsma , walter a. wood . `` dialogu `` , the record magazin for blind person , has award the see eye guid first place in a competit for bulletin issu by agenc serv blind peopl . 
 but famili single-hand provid the sens of signific and the ongo affect and guidanc that modern need for healthi growth and protect from isol and loneliness. other institut make demand on famili , but few attempt to serv famili effect . 
 this was accomplish joint , by manag 's increas effici use of labor , and a perform by our mail handler and carrier that reaffirm their commit to provid our custom with the qualiti servic they deserve. the problem rais by mr. bovard will not be solv by slash the wage of dedic postal employe , nor will the public be serv by the privat of it postal servic . 
 the compani said the bond , due 2012 , will be redeem april 1 at 112.27. texa electr is a unit of texa util and serv two million custom in texa . 
 mani of g. t. & e. 's franchis are in semirur communiti and small citi , and popul growth in it area has been higher than in the larger citi domin by the bell system . last year 's addit brought to 11,321,000 the total number of phone serv by g. t. & e. compani . 
 wall street sourc predict that of all the big bank that have appli for this power , banker trust new york and j.p. morgan probabl will achiev the most success , main becaus of the inroad they have made alreadi as agents. inde , these sourc point out that success in this busi may be most crucial for those two bank , becaus both of them have concentr their effort on serv the biggest corpor , which have abandon bank financ for commerci paper . 
 the plan estim that if everyth went as hope , the system might be abl to get by without draw ani feder money at all , particular in earli year -- a potenti import point in the face of current congression budget-cut requirements. `` the system doe n't need a cash infus so long as it has market borrow access , capit to absorb loss and the abil to serv farmer-borrow on a basi that is both reason to them and profit for fcs over the long term , '' the propos assert . 
 a major of the 200 or so attack on ship sinc the war began have been conduct by iran. ship serv kuwaiti port are the main target . 
 biw said it fourth-quart figur were depress by it establish dure the quarter of a $ 2.2 million reserv for `` possibl excess and obsolet inventory. '' the compani ad that it sale fell becaus of a continu downturn in the petroleum and other market that it serv . 
 sen. leahi 's home state is in the system 's springfield , mass. , district , where a feder judg this week struck down fca rule for transfer of fund from wealthier unit like the springfield bank to shakier unit in the system. even mani legisl from area serv by the weakest farm credit bank may welcom the plan 's gain support in congress . 
 tokyo-bas bridgeston said it plan to spend $ 70 million by 1990 to expand the lavergn , tenn. , plant , which now make one million radial tire annual for truck and buses. by the earli 1990s , bridgeston said , it plan to make about two million radial passeng tire annual at the plant , serv both u.s. and japanes auto maker base in north america . 
 simpli get all parti to a meet at the same time can be a daunt task. carol kane , assist vice presid for meet servic at merril lynch & co. , say the problem is complic when execut meet in , say , palm spring , calif. , which is serv primarili by small commut airlin that carri onli about 12 passeng a plane . 
 howev , sinc 1980 , their number has doubl to more than 2,000 nationwide. most are close held compani serv local or region market . 
 foreign invest benefit the u.s. economi main becaus they lead to export of raw materi , compon , and equip to the oversea facility. when kimberly-clark corp. built a $ 23-million paper mill in huntsvill , ontario , to serv the canadian market , it purchas enough equip in the u.s. to suppli fifty-on man-year of employ . 
 steel technolog inc. said it agre to form a joint ventur with mitsui & co. to oper steel-servic center in the u.s. the steel processor said the center would serv japanes and domest automobil and appliance-part maker in the u. . 
 current , there are onli 40 or so videotex servic offer , for exampl , home bank and electron airlin schedules. they serv onli about 750,000 subscrib , or less than 1 % of u.s. household . 
 the first two part of this volum includ all two-year colleg that were found and had enrol their first class by the fall of 1967. ( compar data on institut found more recent can not be compil sinc onli experi can provid a true picture. ) part i includ those communiti colleg , junior colleg , and technic institut that provid limit if ani residenti facil , or serv primarili a local student bodi . 
 sinc 1985 , the japanes yen has appreci substanti compar with the u.s. dollar , make it relat less expens for the japanes to build vehicl in the u.s. david heali , analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc. , estim that it now cost the japanes about as much to build their vehicl in japan and ship them to the u.s. as it doe to build them here. honda is also keen awar of grow protectionist sentiment in congress and has repeat state it goal to build vehicl in the market it serv . 
 harsco make metal construct and defens product ; it declin to disclos the size of it railroad business. canron , toronto , is a diversifi manufactur serv construct , industri , and specialti market . 
 infin broadcast corp. said it enter an agreement to acquir radio station kvil am/fm , from sconnix broadcast co. , charleston , s.c. , for $ 82 million. the station serv the dallas/fort worth market . 
 transtar airlin , a subsidiari of dallas-bas southwest airlin , said it will form a commut airlin with close held rio airway to serv six texa cities. the servic , which goe into effect jan. 7 , will serv brownsville-south padr island , bryan-colleg station , victoria , laredo , san angelo and killeen . 
 combust engin said the bid reflect it continu effort to expand into high-technolog businesses. accuray make it system main for the pulp and paper industri , a market combust engin also serv . 
 in spongi bone , howev , the lacuna are not arrang in circl and there are no tube for the blood vessel and nerves. the blood vessel and nerv which serv the spongi bone run through the space between the strut and bar . 
 term were n't disclosed. tuscan serv the northern new jersey and new york citi area with milk , juic , ice cream and other dairi product , and also suppli airlin and food-servic concern . 
 the fcc the next year revis the rule , requir vendor to have caller use a special access code , avail onli to adult , or pay by credit card. the appeal court approv that plan , but said it was n't technic feasibl for compani serv by new york telephon . 
 the close held firm said the move is aim at provid more special client need , particular in the area of health and welfar , pension , retir health care , flexibl benefit and post-retir incom , among others. smaller compani will continu to be serv by the parent firm 's employe benefit staff . 
 delta air line , break with other major airlin , said it would prohibit smoke on it regular schedul flight within california , in line with a state law that is schedul to take effect friday. delta , which serv 12 california airport , said it question the state 's author to regul smoke on delta aircraft becaus airlin are feder regul . 
 after all , someday the store will be finish in her neighborhood , so that she will not have to drag her shop bag all across town. her littl one will grow up ; a new subway line will someday serv her area . 
 cablevis said it will hold valley cabl through it cablevis industri of california unit. cablevis industri , a close held concern , own and oper cabl system serv more than 400,000 subscrib . 
 the remain concentr orang juic is `` slush-frozen , `` pour into 6-ounc can , and frozen solid. the can are store in warehous at 10 degre below zero and are then ship to wholesal grocer by the million , for deliveri to the supermarket they serv . 
 the clayton acquisit strengthen geldermann 's posit as a lead futures-on brokerag firm ; it recent acquir heinold commod inc. and agra gill & duffus inc. geldermann also said last week that it is sever it clear tie to more than 75 of it smaller offic serv retail custom to concentr on larger institut account . 
 ellinghaus , who becam presid of the new york telephon co. the day after he address the waldorf-astoria confer , admit that bell was have troubl servic it custom , but he insist that the compani is tri as hard as it can to improv thing . he list a number of improv on the way : by the middl of this decad , a long-haul digit network serv `` approxim 60 citi `` will be in oper , ellinghaus promis . 
 the propos met such a barrag of critic that mr. pierc author the study. the report said , howev , that three area should be review further : reduc competit advantag over privat insur , limit overlap in type of borrow serv by fha and privat firm , and possibl convers of fha into a reinsur of mortgag . 
 braniff inc. said it will start servic to oklahoma citi next friday with a daili round-trip flight to dallas-fort worth. with the new flight , braniff will serv 20 citi in the u.s. and mexico . 
 as he work his way up , he help advanc the intern invest bank oper morgan conduct from london -- includ activ glass-steagal bar commerci bank from in the u.s. in the 1980s , the larg corpor custom that bank such as morgan guaranti serv increas substitut issuanc of commerci paper and other secur for bank borrow . 
 the electron servic would be in addit to the current print directories. `` we believ we could serv our custom and user better if we could offer an altern to the plain print yellow page , '' say david l. wibbelsman , presid of nynex inform resourc co. , a unit of nynex corp. , new york . 
 one still more import similar remain : neither kodak nor polaroid has ever encount serious competit , or come in second best in ani matter of great import . although they choos differ word to say so , both kodak and polaroid believ that they have serv themselv and the public as well without competit as they would have with it . 
 the rang of possibl outcom extend from approv of the merger to reject of the merger , the charter , and the supplement agreement , with some interest combin in between . american export and other oppon complain that the merger would put sea-land in a posit of unassail strength in market serv exclus by u.s.-flag carrier . 
 american presid line ltd. said it appli to the maritim administr for temporari author to serv west coast-to-hawaii trade rout on a week basi . 
 contribut $ 95 million to the joint ventur , william would own 81 % of the new compani ; kansa citi southern 's 87 % -own subsidiari , ldx group , would hold a 19 % stake. the new compani will serv market throughout the u.s. , provid servic to all major metropolitan center , william said . 
 full-year revenu increas 3.8 % to $ 9.36 billion from $ 9.02 billion. william l. weiss , chairman , presid and chief execut offic of ameritech -- the parent of bell compani serv illinoi , indiana , michigan , ohio and wisconsin -- said expens were about unchang from a year earlier , while the work forc increas slight for the first time sinc the compani was form in 1984 . 
 dian bliss , a vice presid at wtvs , said cancom has doubl the size of the station 's audienc , and attract contribut to the station from place like kodiak , alaska , tuktoyaktuk , northwest territori and st. john 's , newfoundland. cancom was establish in 1981 to serv remot communiti and area with inadequ broadcast servic . 
 in respons to question about the new airport , the airlin are told that plan are `` not yet complet , '' while foreign contractor are told that plan are `` too far advanc '' to permit foreign participation. although not schedul for complet until 1993 , the new osaka airport , which will serv the kansai area of western japan , alreadi is bad needed. itami airport , which current serv the osaka area , is so restrict by environment factor that this year less than 15,000 flight will be accept there . 
 airlin also critic the idea , say the talk would n't reduc delay much , but they agre to cooper if the depart grant antitrust immunity. industri offici contend that mrs. dole retreat from her plan to hold talk for airlin serv all 13 airport becaus of industri and polit pressur . 
 ani further increas here , such as an export program , would improv it polit posit with those who argu that japanes compani have been export product to this market at the expens of u.s. jobs. the compani has repeat said it want to build car in the market it serv . 
 through the first nine month of 1986 , piedmont 's profit rose 8 % , to $ 54.9 million , or $ 2.72 a share , on a 23 % jump in revenu to $ 1.36 billion. by serv small citi and set up hub in previous out-of-the-way place like charlott , n.c. and dayton , ohio , piedmont , in addit be financi strong , could mesh well with the rout system of other airlin . 
 centuri communic corp. said it purchas the asset of the morgantown , w.va.-area cabl televis system from cablentertain , a new jersey cabl tv company. centuri paid $ 16 million for the morgantown system , which serv about 13,000 subscribers. with the purchas , centuri said it own or manag 39 cabl tv system in 21 state and puerto rico , serv about 510,000 subscrib . 
 power is generat by thousand of solar cell , which convert the raw , undilut sunlight of space into electr energy. to keep the satellit in perman communic with the area it is meant to serv , it speed is synchron to keep exact pace with the earth 's rotat . 
 your dec. 16 second-front-pag articl `` group home that serv the mental ill face new barrier in some communiti '' onli repeat unsubstanti charg on both side of the issu . 
 the negoti of the agreement was prompt by a disput over the right of air canada , a state-own airlin , to pick up passeng in london and fli them to hong kong and singapore. the new pact settl that disput by allow canadian airlin to fli from london to three citi in asia and to mani european citi that were n't previous serv by canadian carrier via britain . 
 sale rose 11 % to $ 781.8 million from $ 706 million. the dobb hous restaur , newsstand , gift shop and other concess greyhound is acquir serv 20 airport , includ chicago 's o'har , new york 's kennedi and the major termin in atlanta , dallas-fort worth and los angel . 
 there was provis for do this in design , and the result would be that walter would have access to both command modul without have to don a spacesuit. there would also be a save in power by have one life-support system serv two ship , sinc it might come about that the other men would be absent on the alien ship for extend period of time . 
 privat : biggest differ is not the student , '' dec. 1 : the author correct note that public school spend consider more on educ than those in the privat sector. howev , mani of the privat school that are spring up around the countri do not provid for either vocat educ or for educ of the handicap , both of which are necessari and both of which consum a larg amount of dollar for the number of student they serv . 
 there are histor school like alabama 's tuskege institut , start in 1881 by booker t. washington , and well known for it strong vocat programs. anoth histor and famous school is virginia 's hampton institut , found in 1868 by a civil war general to serv indig black and indian . 
 that , after all , is what foreign investor are , prudent. moreov , they are just as sophist as american investor and just as well plug into the vast communic system that serv the world invest communiti . 
 or particip in ticket-sel campaign . a communiti theater can function as a remark cohes forc for the communiti it serv , and few peopl who get hung up on the activ ever quit . 
 coca-cola said it agreement call for bottl coke in the soviet union and expand it sale to more soviet citi and citizens. current , coke sale are restrict to shop serv tourist in moscow ( the compani 's fanta orang soda is sold in moscow , tallin and kiev to soviet consum ) . 
 some of these offici also want bellcor to take on custom other than the region bell , so that it may grow. term of the bell system breakup , howev , prohibit bellcor from serv the broader market . 
 it promis to be quit a reveal battl , with judg bork 's controversi posit on such issu as abort on the one hand , and the democrat opposit led by sen. joe biden on the other. tuesday , sept. 15 , various time ( check local list ) , on station serv by orbi communic : `` nation aid awar test . '' 
 the acquisit will add about $ 1 billion to chase home 's servic portfolio , increas it to about $ 4.5 billion. it also will enabl chase home to establish a servic oper in tampa to serv chase home custom in the southeast and southwest . 
 honeywel has taken the first step in a plan network of educ servic center that will provid administr and instruct servic to school . the first center , open in minneapoli this month , serv more than 50 minnesota elementari school , high school , and colleg . 
 a cancom spokeswoman said the satellit transmiss compani is n't violat ani u.s. or canadian laws. cancom distribut the detroit signal , as well as canadian radio and televis signal , to 850 cabl system serv more than 1.4 million household , mani of them in small , remot communiti . 
 england 's scotland yard alreadi had drop the bertillon system in favor of fingerprint after sir e. r. henri had work out a simpl way to classifi them. the intern associ of chief of polic ( iacp ) was the first to campaign for a central fingerprint file which would serv all polic agenc . 
 adapso note that % 10 of all firm earn % 36 of the revenu in 1968 , while in 1969 % 18 of the compani earn % 83 of the revenu . the survey show that compani in the industri in 1969 employ 120,000 person , serv 220,000 custom , and oper 2,850 comput . 
 auerbach info , inc. , philadelphia , pa. for copi : circl 311 on reader card cong . jack brook ' govop subcommitte is said to be vital interest in establish a cobol valid center at nbs , serv all feder agenc . 
 substanti modernis of farm techniqu could be undertaken , and capit project begun. as they point out in liul , `` befor the peopl 's commune was set up , we had begun build a dam that was to serv three differ cooper farm . 
 sinc spain is constant get more automobil , truck , and buse , there seem certain to be continu improv of the road . sinc there are mani place in spain that are not serv by a railroad , bus traffic is heavi . 
 conrail 's manag look for cost to cut and found plenty. they stop serv town where busi had shrivel , rid the railroad of one in everi four mile of it network . 
 kaiser permanent is more than 45 year old. we serv near five million voluntarili enrol member in 16 state and the district of columbia , and are general regard as a prototyp of the group-practice-model hmo . 
 life improv , even in calabria , a region so poor and underdevelop that some call it `` the mezzogiorno of the mezzogiorno. '' starvat and malaria are gone ; illiteraci is rare ; a new univers serv the popul ; an autostrada now link rome and napl with calabria 's biggest citi . 
 some state are move to restrict untax entrepreneurialism. in arizona , for exampl , state agenc are prohibit from enter market alreadi serv by commerci busi . 
 the new plant -- the compani 's second in the u.s. -- will employ 550 worker when it is oper at full capac in late 1991 , nippondenso said. a grow number of japanes auto part maker are open plant to serv the u.s. and canadian oper of japanes and u.s. car maker . 
 `` you realli ca n't consid taiwan an export nation. taiwan is simpli a collect of intern subcontractor serv the american market , '' say franci geronimi , the director of the franc asia trade promot associ in taipei . 
 in addit to merger-rel cost , the one-tim charg also includ the expens of consolid foley 's into the retail 's region data process center in atlanta. the center alreadi serv three other feder divis . 
 tca also bought total televis of amarillo , texa , for $ 51.5 million from marsh media ltd. and stauffer communic inc. of topeka , kan. the amarillo system serv 38,000 subscrib . 
 but top-rank va offici from previous administr feel strong that mani hospit should be close , and their resourc divert to upgrad university-affili acute-car center . veteran in these local could be serv by referr clinic , and the hospit could be turn over to the state or to local communiti . 
 in 1983 , he sold polici with $ 86.5 million in coverag , the compani 's all-tim record for sale by a singl agent. today mr. patel , now 44 , serv some 4,000 client from his livingston , n.j. , offic . 
 these provis are part of a dod plan to use essenti two data manag system if a non-ibm win the pend competition. one dms would serv the second standard site ; the other , the site to be equip under the pend rfp . 
 a 1984 studi commiss by the depart of educ found that public school with high concentr of hispan usual `` combin a continu use of spanish languag and english instruction. '' but 91 % of the school serv most non-hispan immigr use all-english instruct . 
 creat in the mid-1970 from the ruin of the penn central and other ail carrier , conrail has sinc restor it physic plant , slash cost and becom profitable. but now the railroad is also tri to find new market in the industri state it serv from new england to the midwest . 
 one offic was in minneapoli and three were in omaha , neb. the spokeswoman said citicorp will continu to serv it near 300,000 exist financi account custom . 
 under the present manag structur , adopt in 1969 after a two-year studi by the stanford research institut , henkel 's affair are run by the seven-man execut committe of the parent hold compani , henkel gmbh , through two wholli own oper compani . henkel & cie gmbh `` henkel europ , `` it might be call serv all of europ and account for 94 percent of total sale . 
 mr. panfil declin to comment on whether mr. attar had made ani other demands. aero serv the corpor and commerci aviat market by suppli fuel , mainten hangar space , clean , baggage-handl and other servic . 
 he alreadi own trump 's and trump 's castl in atlant city. but sever sourc said that rather than sell one casino , mr. trump could meet term of the rule by close the casino in resort i and convert the facil into a hotel that would serv the mammoth casino in the taj mahal . 
 the effect on beneficiari has , in mani case , been devastating. while onli a hand of hmos generat complaint , they serv about 30 % of program beneficiari . 
 but onc have enrol them , their compens should be margin lower than that award by other insur carriers. this will tend to make the provid margin less interest in serv your subscrib and so will creat anoth barrier to care deliveri . 
 close held pentech is a hold compani for qo chemic inc. , it onli oper subsidiari , great lake said. great lake ad that qo chemic , which produc certain specialti chemic that are use to make furfuryl alcohol and other product use in foundri resin , plastic , flame-retard build materi , oil refin and urethan system , fit well into sever market it alreadi serv and enhanc it intern presenc . 
 under the plan , secur pacif also said it will great expand it automat teller network , institut flexibl hour at some branch , simplifi bank servic and add sale personnel to generat loan in non-tradit bank areas. mr. smith said earlier that the bank may also consolid 3 % to 4 % of it 600 branch , which serv three million custom in california . 
 like other minicomput manufactur , varian is find that some of it larg oem custom are feel the financi squeez , and the result is lag sale to some oem 's . by concentr more on new softwar , peripher , and system , varian is aim to move into vertic market serv more end user . 
 the risk is that the film will land in a lab where the use of unskil worker , dirti solut , and sloppi print method will result in perman scratch negat and muddi prints. one solut is to find and use one of the special lab that serv profession photographers. ( the extra expens involv may be worth it . ) 
 thus nation compani were encourag to establish satellit plant close to the larg citi , particular on circumferenti highway which all too often had origin been plan for recreat but over which adequ control had not been placed. thus while manufactur general tend to quit the center of citi , busi that offer servic had either to be nucleat so as to serv a substanti number of automobile-born custom or remain in the central citi itself . 
 `` jeremi was begin to understand whi the univers build was so massive. not onli were there enough function area to serv a small villag , but the elevator-subway system took up a great deal of room between floor and in the outsid wall . 
 a trip on the star ferri from kowloon to hong kong island , for exampl , will set you back the equival of seven cents. serv the out area of hong kong is the kowloon-canton railway corp. , which is government-own . 
 the new saturn franchis would help the dealer maintain strong profit by limit competit among the dealers. each dealer , in return , would be requir to establish a suffici number of sale and servic facil throughout the design territori to serv the region . 
 as expect , retail had weak sale in part of the southwest that have been hit hard by the declin in oil prices. accord to telecheck southwest , a check-author compani serv 9,000 retail in texa , oklahoma , new mexico and arkansa , check write in houston plummet 13 % from a year earlier over the 26-day period from thanksgiv to christma eve . 
 the compani said it paid $ 9.5 million for sun valley cablevis inc. the cabl system serv 6,300 household in idaho . 
 he knew the score for a young surgeon in a town like spruce harbor . the town had thirti thousand peopl and potenti serv anoth forti to fifti thousand . 
 the feder energi regulatori commiss approv a test of new price flexibl for bulk power sale among 15 public and privat util in 10 western states. the commiss unanim approv a two-year experi that will allow the util , which serv 30 million custom , flexibl to adjust rate for discretionari wholesal power sale among themselv . 
 similar , at ani moment , continent 's comput is monitor the status of reserv on 495,000 futur flights. the comput measur the book against expect and call attent to ani flight that is off the normal pace , depend on the season , flight time , citi be serv , day of the week , and whether a predomin leisur or busi market is be serv . 
 the compani has surpris some beer-industri veteran with it distribut strategi for the five new york citi borough and surround counties. instead of copi it competitor and have sever beer wholesal serv new york , coor pick onli one distributor , and it choic , curious enough , was a canada dri softdrink bottler . 
 royal said that it plan to continu to fli while under chapter 11 protect from creditor ' lawsuit , and that the citicorp unit 's seizur of the plane wo n't requir it to reduc further it scaled-down flight schedule. royal , which serv 14 citi in louisiana , texa , mississippi and florida under it continent agreement , will lose five citi on it old rout and will add three in other area . 
 neither compani would comment on capit of the new service. ernst & whinney , a major account and busi consult concern , serv more than 1,200 client , includ more than 300 retail . 
 a controversi and still unpublish studi by the staff of the citi administr show that sanitation-depart collect cost are $ 49 a ton. privat cart compani , which serv restaur , hotel , and mani other privat busi , do the same job for $ 17^50 a ton . 
 `` they give me the best treatment , '' say mike garcia , an offic of the leather good , plastic and novelti worker ' union , who say he bank at amalgam becaus of it labor roots. amalgam has report 44 consecut year of profit and has grown to $ 1.47 billion in asset by serv two overlap constitu : middle-class consum and organ labor . 
 and it said there would be increas possibl for collus among titl insur compani use such inform in los angel county. the consent agreement also bar alleghani for 10 year from acquir addit interest in ani such central record system , common call titl plant , serv either area . 
 in the file , the six-year-old compani said that it has been a `` develop stage '' enterpris for much of it exist and sustain big loss as it financ the construct of it network. the carrier use satellit for transmit convers and data and serv sever hundr custom in 19 citi . 
 the airlin also said it will drop it one daili flight between newark , n.j. , and kansa citi , effect jan. 23. a spokesman said the compani decid that serv miami provid a `` better util '' of it plane than did the servic to newark . 
 it prescrib institut to further the defens , the extens and the enrich of the transcend kingdom of idea , knowledg and creativity. regard man as both creator and subject of the kingdom , the institut will serv him in his most uniqu and precious essenc . 
 he would n't be more specific. the facil serv by vha suppli repres 20 % of all communiti hospit bed in the countri . 
 mr. albani want to bring sunbeam 's profit margin to 10 % , well abov the industri average. he think that 's possibl , despit the satur of the small-appli market , by push innov new product , such as it huge success oskar food processor , and by expand into market sunbeam doe n't yet serv , such as low-pric iron . 
 the airlin do compet on three non-stop rout : los angeles-phoenix ; los angeles-san francisco and los angeles-san diego. but becaus other carrier also serv these market and becaus usair is a `` relat minor particip '' along these rout , the merger would n't substanti decreas competit , the depart argu . 
 a recent survey find that high percentag of the various help profess claim to offer marriag counsel : it is general recogn that some profession servic are more compet and effect than others. most communiti have mental health center , guidanc servic , famili servic bureaus , and accredit marriag counselor who can be expect to serv a troubl marriag or a suffer marri individu well . 
 final , the school had to be within reason travel time of ibm 's mohans laboratori and of columbia univers . montclair high school is a comprehens high school serv grade 9 through 12 , and is the onli high school in this suburb , whose popul is ethnic and socioeconom heterogen . 
 togeth , the two have close to 20 million cabl subscrib , but there are more than 40 million cabl subscrib , half of whom are n't buy extra pay networks. an hbo spokesman said the compani will offer festiv through it exist 7,000 cabl system serv most of the nation 's subscrib . 
 the compani are st. paul & suburban bus co. of st. paul , minn. , kline school & charter bus co. of napervill , ill. , and georg h. hoen jr. inc. of cologn , n.j. ryder said the purchas make the compani the third-largest privat oper of school buse in the countri with 3,700 buse serv about 140 school district in 11 state . 
 the region bell hold compani 's share also are trade in london and switzerland , as well as on the new york and other u.s. stock exchanges. ameritech 's unit serv illinoi , indiana , michigan , ohio and wisconsin . 
 an american televis spokesman said the transact was announc at the time of the initi public offer , but requir citi and state clearanc befor it could be completed. manhattan cabl , which serv 228,000 household in the southern half of manhattan , was time 's last cabl oper properti not own by american televis . 
 the owner and oper of cabl tv system also said it is consid a public offer that could includ both debt and equiti , but that term of ani offer have n't been determined. the riga famili , of which john j. riga , adelphia 's presid and chief execut offic , is a member , own cabl tv system serv a total of about 87,000 subscrib in suburban pittsburgh , eastern massachusett , michigan , western new york , ohio and vermont . 
 the rate concern cite louisiana regul ' approv this week of a $ 57 million emerg rate increas for gulf state custom in that state. gulf state , which serv the slump petrochemical-produc region of the gulf coast , has been seek higher rate to pay for it $ 4.4 billion river bend nuclear plant in st. francisvill , la . 
 one of it paper has instal a general-purpos comput with composit softwar to handl a number of function includ store , sort , and retriev classifi advertis and wire servic copi . the comput also serv a sister paper via data-phon link . 
 henkel 's parent produc consum product and specialti chemicals. as previous report , pipelin repair have halt product at the flotta termin , which serv the piper , scapa and claymor field oper by the occident unit and two field oper by texaco north sea u.k. ltd. , a unit of texaco inc. , white plain , n.i . 
 wagner and brown contribut capit and their own talent and inform to the partnership to be use for acquisit of unoc stock. target sharehold are serv by a legal system that make it possibl for takeov specialist to share inform with other without a formal pre-off partnership agreement . 
 what we have here -- a bunch of differ theater struggl to surviv , each one with a distinct voic -- is a hybrid that is more excit and more spontan indigen to this country. '' in order to show support for the resid compani that alreadi exist in this countri , mr. bell rais about $ 85,000 from privat foundat and individu and secur the storm king ground with it 240-seat walter read theater ( it normal serv a privat high school dure the school year ) for the summer . 
 first carolina oper 21 cabl system in nashvill and knoxvill , tenn. , georgia , south carolina , virginia , north carolina , kentucki , ohio and arizona. the mccaw system mr. cook acquir last januari serv 42 market in the u.s. includ tucson , ariz. , syracus , n.y. , southern oregon and southern washington state . 
 but it had potenti . it serv the entir east coast , and i believ that someday there would be extens travel between new york and florida by air . 
 ipalco enterpris inc. said it mid-america capit resourc inc. unit complet the sale of the asset of indianapoli cablevis inc. for $ 151.3 million to comcast cabl leas partner l.p. the asset consist of a cabl televis system serv about 82,000 subscrib in indiana . 
 this spiral stair , known as the `` snail , `` adjoin palazzo contarini del bovolo , the resid of a nobl famili in the earli 1500 's . today , like mani restor palac , it is divid into apart and offic serv by an elev . 
 michael j. madden was name to the newli creat post of vice presid , physic distribution. mr. madden , who take respons for 18 warehous distribut center that serv this toy retail 's 271 store , was most recent with jewel food store , a divis of american store co . 
 the critic about select has encourag a few communiti to develop their own train effort and has slowli chang some jtpa programs. last year , new york citi spent $ 12.3 million on it own educ and job program for 16-to-21-year-old after it found that jtpa serv just 5.5 % of the 232,600 youth in the citi who qualifi -- and that , although one object of the program was to make sure that particip did n't drop out of high school , half of those help alreadi had high-school diploma . 
 the two-year colleg serv a broad cross section of the nation 's youth , includ those who want to prepar themselv as rapid as possibl to compet on the job market ; those who have not taken full advantag of previous educ opportun and are still seek to `` find themselv `` ; those for whom famili oblig make `` go away to colleg `` difficult , if not imposs ; the disadvantag who need help in overcom the limit of their earlier school , the ambiti but impecuni student who seek educ opportun near home , as well as the academ capabl individu who desir the relat shelter environ of a small colleg dure their transit from adolesc to young adulthood. in some case a singl institut is ask to serv virtual the whole rang of student on a singl campus and some do so with notabl success . 
 in addit , signet 80 begin this month will provid messag process between various offic of a brokerag , make it ideal for this type of firm. it is not intend to serv veri larg firm , howev ; nor is it aim at the smallest brokerag . 
 and it said it was expand it investig to three more airport becaus atlanta 's schedul problem probabl `` are n't an isol case. '' the major carrier serv the chicago , boston and dallas-fort worth airport are american , unit , piedmont , continent , usair , delta and eastern . 
 talley also would receiv an option to purchas as mani as 283,235 share of author but unissu common stock of east-west at $ 8 a share. east-west , which had $ 301 million in asset as of dec. 31 , has 11 branch offic that primarili serv the chinese-american communiti , talley said . 
 ms. aulenti prefer a meshlik chain link material. the fanci dine room that onc serv the hotel in the station has neo-rococo ceil featur pastel goddess . 
 in elkhart , kan. , forrest cameron is struggl to hang on to his 22-year-old farm equip dealership. farmer in the four counti he serv alreadi have enrol about 600,000 acr in the conserv reserv program . 
 the compani said oper are expect to begin this summer. the bakeri in west germani will have the capac to produc 3,000 dozen bun per hour , and will serv 130 mcdonald 's restaur in the northern section of the countri . 
 the iadb had approv two earlier loan , total $ 440 million , for the same project. brazil will receiv two loan , each amount to $ 100 million , to help financ industri project in the northeast region of the countri and for an expans of the public water system serv brasilia , the countri 's capit citi . 
 alan kassan , an analyst at shearson lehman brother inc. , said he rais his estim of viacom 's market valu to $ 55 a share from $ 50 becaus of the recent appreci in valu for cabl televis systems. cabl system have been chang hand at increas higher price recent , and viacom own cabl system serv about 940,000 subscrib . 
 he now take on the addit posit of chief execut offic , succeed weldon w. case , 66 , mid-contin telephon 's founder. mr. case , who will continu to serv as chairman of alltel , forg his career in a similar single-mind style. found mid-contin telephon in 1960 , he built it from five small ohio telephon compani into a network serv near a million custom in 19 state . 
 the transact includ j.b.n. 's independ communic inc. unit , a fairview , kan. , provid of communic servic to the defens depart , the telecommun concern said. j.b.n. telephon serv 2,500 access line in 13 exchang in north central kansa , contel said . 
 certain thrift institut had sought the loan-limit freez , contend that the index inflat the purchas ceil abov the level congress intended. freddi mac was intend to help moderate-incom homebuy , but by increas the size of mortgag the compani buy , the index result in it serv more affluent buyer , the critic said . 
 under the agreement , kodak paid $ 6.30 a share for intern biotechnolog ' 2.4 million share outstand , and acquir stock option under the compani 's convert debt. the seven-year-old intern biotechnolog , with annual sale of about $ 7 million , serv the molecular biolog market . 
 but , the sourc ad , a reconstitut air atlanta would n't like includ michael r. holli , the 33-year-old lawyer who in 1984 launch the airline. oper out of it atlanta hub , it eventu serv nine citi . 
 gencorp inc. said it probabl wo n't close the sale of it new jersey station wor-tv to gth-100 , an mca inc. subsidiari , until next year. the tire , chemic , aerospac and broadcast concern expect to realiz about $ 250 million after tax from the sale of the station , which serv the new york market . 
 transport secretari elizabeth dole grant antitrust immun to airlin serv chicago 's o'har and atlanta 's hartsfield airport so they can joint set schedul in an effort to curb flight delay . 
 on anoth issu , an occident spokesman said yesterday that bad weather in the north sea continu to prevent repair work on an oil pipelin and extend the disrupt of output from occident 's field there to the 12th day in a row. pipelin repair have halt product at the flotta termin , which serv the piper , scapa and claymor field oper by occident and two field oper by texaco north sea u.k. ltd. , a unit of texaco inc . 
 increas in tuition , which have help white colleg keep pace with grow oper cost , are hard the answer for black colleges. most of them were found to serv indig or poverty-stricken student , and they continu to attract youngster from relat poor famili . 
 royal airlin , a region carrier serv 14 citi in the oil patch , said it expect to seek chapter 11 protect under the feder bankruptci code . 
 martin marietta corp. said southern new england telephon co. agre to join it team seek a feder telecommun contract with an estim valu of $ 4.5 billion over 10 years. the aerospac and data-system concern said southern new england telephon , a new haven , conn.-bas independ phone compani serv most of connecticut , is an import addit to it team becaus of the substanti number of feder facil in connecticut . 
 from friend in washington and new york , poston learn that a coupl of new york 's largest street gang had forsaken their bloodi war and other crimin activ in favor of a comprehens effort to reform the ghetto . they had establish a riot-prevent forc , a street academi serv 1,600 high-school dropout , a day-car center , and a whole panopli of social servic . 
 term were n't disclosed. crs said it would retain a 49 % interest in sirrin environment consult inc. , a design , engin and construct compani serv power plant , wast compani and other compani involv in handl hazard and toxic substanc . 
 mr. amoroso was travel and could n't be reach for comment. mr. teasley , 50 , most recent was manag director of coca-cola soft drink ltd. , the compani 's bottl unit that serv london and southern england . 
 but the real action has come in the past two year , when murdoch magazin launch a u.s. version of the french fashion magazin ell in a joint ventur with french publish hachett public inc. , purchas new woman and european travel & life , launch automobil and acquir ziff-davi inc. 's 13 busi public for $ 350 million. use the ziff-davi trade public , murdoch magazin now is explor some ambiti electron publish product to serv the travel and aviat industri . 
 repetit housekeep function are provid automat , requir less code . cosmos program are compat with each other , further reduc product code , with one environ serv all process . 
 frontier , a state-chart stock associ with asset of $ 6.9 million , was close by state regulators. it offic wo n't reopen , and frontier custom will be serv through first feder 's branch in fairbank . 
 at the same time the decision-mak bodi were merg in a singl council of minist , also in brussel . the court of justic , serv the communiti as a whole , sit in luxembourg . 
 they call for more test , but onli voluntari testing. they reject out of hand propos for routin test of individu upon certain occas : for exampl , for some or all of those admit to hospit , for those be treat at clinic serv `` high-risk '' popul , for coupl seek marriag licens , and for prison inmat . 
 the disast was the first fatal accid for psa sinc the 1978 collis of an airlin with a small plane over it headquart citi of san diego kill 144. it popular los angeles-san francisco commut servic is the airlin 's largest singl rout , serv the nation 's most heavili travel air corridor . 
 some tv disc track are connect to tv display , while other track feed d / a convert drive headphones. the prototyp doe not actual serv 128 termin , but use six actual termin , with the remaind software-simul . 
 irvin 's rout led us up a creek call neali branch , then across two lone high mountain , until it reach the birthplac of anoth creek , call hollybush . we follow this creek down toward the tini communiti of pippa pass , where the post offic is on the campus of picturesqu alic lloyd colleg , which serv the youth of that isol area . 
 further , while the data process or comput specialist has tradit been in charg , mr. mcfall believ this will chang , and that the communic specialist will eventu becom respons for the manag and direct of the merg inform and communic system . in ani case , we will sure see the emerg of nation and global inform process util , serv hundr of thousand , perhap million of subscrib on a time-shar basi . 
 they built a rural electr line near the town of red wing , minnesota. it was onli six mile long and was design to serv the twenti farm locat along it rout . 
 those who were abl to went out of town dure the summer week-end , or stay behind their hedg . june and her mother live over the corner shop of half a dozen that serv such an area . 
 berg say optran 's circuitri and compon are good for `` thousand of hour of uninterrupt servic , `` and instal the equip `` requir minimum technic skill. `` datran plan to use this system in citi , to serv cluster of custom . 
 the three were the last of the seven region bell hold compani to report result , which overal were among the least robust post sinc the 1984 breakup of the bell system. the earn growth of englewood , colo.-bas u s west mask weak perform by it basic telephon oper , which serv a spars popul and econom anem region of 14 western state , analyst said. the result of bell atlant and especi bellsouth show solid growth of their basic telephon oper , underscor the strong region economi the two compani serv . 
 dragonair has made some progress in the 20 month sinc it began flight to the east malaysian citi of kota kinabalu. today , it fli to 14 citi in japan , thailand and china , and also has author from the hong kong govern to serv 34 asian citi , although it must await country-to-countri negoti for land right to these place . 
 educ depart offici said the propos will be includ in the fiscal 1988 budget request for the chapter 1 program , which provid fund for remedi education. the request would boost chapter 1 's budget for the year begin oct. 1 to $ 4.1 billion from $ 3.9 billion and increas the number of student serv to 5.5 million from five million . 
 under the pressur of free and compulsori educ the literaci rate improv almost daili . up to about the 1890 's mass product was move steadili up a high road , and the media which could have serv it were still move along a low road . 
 he said he chose piedmont , howev , becaus the number of carrier offer transatlant servic would be increased. `` the polici of maxim the number of carrier in the u.s.-london market make it ( piedmont ) the clear choic over american , which serv london alreadi from dallas/fort worth , '' the judg said . 
 an institut that can spend $ 20 billion on a water-project bill , but wo n't give feder offici a long overdu rais at a teensi fraction of the pork barrel 's cost is easi to ridicule. the public , howev , is poor serv by a system that has pretti much reduc nation polit to the level of a game measur in won-loss record . 
 inflationari expect will persist , they say , and those expect -- rather than under fundament -- could continu to drive commod price higher in the month ahead. those expect `` are n't go to disappear , '' say albert a. gross , chief economist in the new york offic of refco inc. , a larg futur and option firm serv institut client . 
 desk were discard relic of the grade school. the onli bathroom in each apart had to serv one hundr and fifti youngster . 
 the bank board retain the fail thrift 's asset of $ 120.8 million for liquidation. unit will serv custom of the fail thrift at the park citi offic for two week befor close that facil . 
 onli commerci bank i.e. , those typic engag in financ product and distribut through short-term lend to busi are elig for the list. some bank that have larg asset and engag in commerci oper are exclud becaus they are primarili save bank or becaus they serv a special clientel . 
 terra nova , base in gander , newfoundland , serv 50,000 subscrib in part of newfoundland and labrador , and is expect to report net incom for 1987 of four million canadian dollar ( $ 3.1 million ) on revenu of 46 million dollars. northwestel , base in whitehors , the yukon , serv 35,000 subscrib in the yukon , the northwest territori and northern british columbia , and is expect to report 1987 net incom of 7.6 million dollar on revenu of 67 million dollar . 
 medicaid spend on aid will jump sixfold to $ 2.4 billion annual by fiscal 1992 from $ 400 million this year , a top feder health offici told member of presid reagan 's aid commiss at their first public meeting. feder fund will have to pay for more than half the expenditur of the medicaid program serv about 40 % of the acquir immun defici syndrom popul nationwid and 65 % of the patient in some high-incid area such as new york citi . 
 in turn , the telecommun giant will be the exclus outsid supplier to western digit for devic known as cmos wafer , small circular platter of comput chip that work faster and cooler than most current semiconductors. william warwick , at & t divis presid , said the pact will signific boost it cmos busi and give at & t , a recent newcom in sell chip to other compani , access to custom long serv by it new partner . 
 no more. distress by the escal cost of medic care , busi and the insur compani that serv them are begin to shuck the role of passiv bill-pay . 
 continent yesterday abandon what it had call the `` biggest airlin ticket giveaway ever '' after madison squar garden in new york and the meadowland sport facil in nearbi east rutherford , n.j. , refus to host the giveaway. continent , a texa air corp. unit , want to celebr sunday the airlin 's becom the largest carrier serv the new york area . 
 the comput industri practic what it preaches. it high-tech member are move rapid into a world in which comput design comput made by robot control by still other comput , all to serv custom who will place order -- by computer. ( if one of these new machin has a bug , it can call yet anoth comput for help . ) 
 the partnership that start out with 14 member and four earth station now boast 83 member with 53 station in 39 countri . by 1973 it will have 70 earth station and be serv everi heavili popul area of the free world . 
 utilicorp unit inc. said it complet the acquisit of west kootenay power & light co. from vancouv , british columbia-bas cominco ltd. , a mine concern , for $ 61 million. the util said west kootenay , a hydroelectr util that serv 97,000 custom , had 1986 revenu of $ 44.5 million . 
 transtar airlin , a subsidiari of dallas-bas southwest airlin , said it will form a commut airlin with close held rio airway to serv six texa citi . 
 and the big bank take advantag of this weak by insist that the small bank keep on deposit unusu heavi non-earn balances. in general , the small bank serv their local communiti veri poor . 
 gull air inc. , a commut airlin that serv the boston and miami market , su texa air corp. and it chief execut offic , frank lorenzo , alleg `` predatori busi practic aim at the destruct of gull air . '' 
 moreov , most major japanes concern have rapid move product , or at least , final assembl , to the u.s. soni , for exampl , has announc plan to expand it color-tv plant in san diego , calif. matsushita has two facil , includ one in vancouv , wash. , to serv the ge contract . 
 share in most major u.s. corpor are bought and sold ( trade , in wall street jargon ) on the new york stock exchang ; their younger and more specul competitor show up on the curb ; and most of the rest , compris ten of thousand of compani , larg and small , are found over-the-count . besid the major exchang , there are at least fifteen other , the most import be the hand of market serv detroit , boston , pittsburgh , baltimor , chicago , san francisco and their respect environ . 
 the bell telecommun compani is base in philadelphia. it serv pennsylvania , new jersey , delawar , maryland , virginia , west virginia and washington , d.c . 
 `` i 'm tire of accumul fact for the sake of facts. let scienc be lost if it doe n't serv us . '' 
 nwa acquir republ last august. moodi 's said that becaus republ 's rout system will have to be `` fine-tun '' to better serv northwest 's pacif rout , benefit from the merger will not be immedi . 
 mrs. dole contend that serious schedul problem at the two airport requir reschedul flight from extrem busi time to less congest hours. the transport depart secretari also grant `` condit immun '' to carrier serv five other airport -- dallas-fort worth , boston , denver , philadelphia and newark , n.j . 
 the bid is be made by the compani 's mark iv acquisit corp. unit. the offer fit mark iv 's strategi of buy specialti manufactur that serv nich market consid too small for larg compani and too complic and expens for small compani . 
 mr. kramer will also help market a product that has found grow accept with a larg bodi of user , both within the u.s. and internationally. the data communic market that telemat serv is still in it infanc . 
 the state were incap of cope with the nation , inde intern , econom collapse. the constitut must be broad interpret to enabl the central power to serv the general welfar . 
 it also is one that the 52-year-old mr. gardini manag to escap from -- venic is some 80 mile from his offic and princip home in ravennan -- earli everi weekend. there 's a telephon in the wood-panel elev that serv ca'dario 's wood-panel dine room , but mr. gardini give the distinct impress that ani call had better be import . 
 but as the distinct begin to blur between person comput and more sophist workstat , both in term of price and perform , market opportun broaden for both industries. inde , mr. mcneali said he would like to see sun expand it market down into area tradit serv by person comput manufactur -- such as more convent offic autom -- even as person comput maker are attempt to move into more sophist market . 
 the fight , of cours , is the long-run and bitter battl between long island light co. ( lilco ) and polit forc that includ , most import , those of new york governor mario cuomo. in the narrowest and most superfici sens , the quarrel is over whether lilco 's shoreham nuclear-pow plant repres a threat to the safeti of the heavili popul area it is intend to serv . 
 it has note that arlington , va.-bas usair and winston-salem , n.c.-base piedmont compet against each other on 21 nonstop rout , most in the northeast , and are the onli competitor on nine of those. but jame weiss , head of the justic depart 's transport section , said his agenc found that the threat of heighten competit from delta air line , allegi corp. 's unit airlin , amr corp. 's american airlin and nwa inc. 's northwest airlin , which also serv a substanti part of the northeast , would deter the merger partner from rais fare or cut servic . 
 nation intergroup inc. said it nation steel corp. unit and marubeni corp. will build a $ 17 million facil to serv the automot industri . 
 `` there alway seem to be some knot in the hose , '' say rell moor , plant manag at e.j. snyder inc. , a textile-finish compani in albemarl , n.c. mr. moor figur snyder would save $ 100,000 annual if it could buy `` transport '' gas , as the industri call gas purchas direct from a producer. but snyder has been unabl to persuad transco energi co. , the onli interst pipelin oper serv north carolina , to provid it with transport servic . 
 it has cloud the futur of the institut that up to now have born much of the burden of educ the teacher , lawyer , minist , and other leader of black america . now the colleg , particular the privat one , that tradit have serv black are in serious troubl , and the continu exist of mani of them is in doubt . 
 small freight item and passeng travel in privat own station wagon , nine-passeng limousin , or small buse that oper independ and make at least one round trip daili from the countri district to the island 's main town . honolulu has a citi transit system , with regular frequent schedul serv most neighborhood in the citi and it suburb . 
 huron counti had come far sinc his last visit . the crowd airport now serv two nation and three region airlin . 
 should the compani 's bank remain unwil to extend further credit , he said , gulf state probabl would be forc to tri rais the necessari fund through a sale of `` junk bond -- `` high-risk , high-yield secur , probabl debentur , that probabl would yield 11.75 % to 12 % . gulf state , which serv a wide area of texa and louisiana , has been struggl to obtain higher rate to pay for it $ 4.4 billion river bend nuclear plant in st. francisvill , la . 
 for exampl , i-5 through seattl , the most complex freeway of all , is credit with save this bottle-shap citi from strangulation. on one stretch , in the morn , 8 of the 12 lane that serv the busi district carri high-spe incom traffic . 
 the loos group of citi interest who have fought the interst with lawsuit and civil disturb are be join by grow number of suburban residents. the close-in suburbanit are alarm at plan to expand exist highway and build new loop and radial to serv the new outer suburb . 
 against this background , in octob , 1970 , there came a letter to the ftc from repres joe l. evin of tennesse . the tva , which serv evin ' constitu , had just rais it electr rate 25 percent . 
 sinc octob , the unit 's three top execut -- who are among the candid for the vacant posit -- have been report direct to mr. shipley. they are alan m. silverstein , 39 , senior vice presid in charg of the credit card busi ; morgan b. stark , 47 , execut vice presid for privat bank , which serv affluent custom ; and william h. turner , 46 , execut vice presid in charg of new york-area retail bank oper . 
 the report said `` the feder govern should initi a program of widespread , long-term experi in welfar polici through state-sponsor and community-bas demonstr projects. '' mr. hobb includ in welfar some 59 means-test program ( those in which benefit are restrict to peopl in certain incom categori ) that serv 52 million american and cost $ 132 billion in fiscal 1985 . 
 about 100,000 of the share will be redeem under sink fund provis for the issu ; the remain 150,000 share are be redeem at the compani 's option. consum power , base in jackson , mich. , is michigan 's largest util , serv six million resid . 
 the lawsuit charg nation fuel 's util subsidiari , nation fuel gas distribut corp. , with breach of a contract to purchas synthet natur gas from ashland. nation fuel , which serv natur gas custom in pennsylvania and new york , had been buy the synthet gas from ashland sinc 1972 , under a contract that was to run through 1984 . 
 `` he has the kind of commerci savvi we need , '' said a compani official. `` he understand the industri market we serv . '' 
 in fiscal 1987 , mesaba had revenu of $ 21.8 million. mesaba , with 385 employe , serv 21 market in six state , carri passeng to and from northwest 's giant hub at the minneapolis/st . 
 visitor liter pop in. the kuggeri 's size make two and sometim three seal-oil lamp a must , but at the same time the extra lamp serv more peopl . 
 there have been too few ration decis regard the organ of the computer. too often edp organ just happen without analysi as to how best to fit the power of the comput to serv the corpor . 
 through qo chemic , pentech produc certain specialti chemic that are use to make furfuryl alcohol and other product use in foundri resin , plastic , flame retard build materi , oil refin and urethan systems. great lake said qo 's specialti chemic line fit well into sever market it alreadi serv and enhanc it intern presenc . 
 found onli 10 year ago by a group led by sherwin memel , an intens man with an expertis in health-car law , it was for a time one of the nation 's fastest-grow law firms. it focus on serv client in the grow health-car industri such as health mainten organ , for-profit hospit and health-car insur . 
 short afterward , the florida insur depart took charg of the compani 's day-to-day manag , say it financi statement show it to be insolvent. intern medic serv 170,000 patient in florida , 79 % of whom are medicar recipi . 
 we 'd forgotten to put in the deck plug . `` they haul her out and for some thirti year the gee whiz serv us nobli . 
 transtar airlin is offer special senior citizen discount fare that rang from $ 15 to $ 59 each way in the 12 market it serv . 
 `` they are strap at a critic time , '' accord to one analyst who declin to be identified. the compani regular tout it world-wid capit market capabl to serv giant multin . 
 usair , base in washington , oper primarili in the east and midwest. pacif southwest , base in san diego , serv 29 airport , most on the west coast . 
 texa oil & gas corp. , a unit of usx corp. , said it agre to construct an intrast natur gas pipelin in south texa in partnership with northern indiana public servic co. the propos 110-mile pipelin would provid addit capac from the lobo trend area to pipelin in south texa that serv most u.s. market , the compani said . 
 tran world airlin , for exampl , has drastic reduc it plan forc and elimin layer of manag under carl icahn , who control the carrier. american airlin , which onc station a control 's offic at each airport it serv , now has a total of four control across the countri . 
 the util hold compani said it peopl natur gas divis is primarili involv in the distribut of natur gas , rather than in transmission. the 800-mile gather and transmiss system serv south central kansa , the compani said . 
 bendigo , call after an english boxer , has manag to avoid the fate of so mani place that , launch by the gold rush of 1851 , were subsequ left like strand whale by the eb of the golden tide . now it is a market town serv a prosper farm area , with a few smallish industri and a substanti popul of the retir well-to-do . 
 some had been built alreadi and seven famili had move in. the foundat of seven more were be laid and readi to serv them were a health clinic and a communiti build where adult educ and vocat train class were under way . 
 the rate rollback reflect in part the new lower feder tax rate. consolid edison , which serv new york citi and westchest counti , has n't had a rate increas sinc 1983 . 
 `` if you want a presid who 's differ , `` i said , `` vote for my oppon , becaus both of them are differ from the vast major of us. for the last 2-1/2 year they have belong to a smooth-run , effici and thorough unimagin govern which has forgotten the student it is suppos to serv . 
 the legisl author spend to modern the nation 's air-traff control system , hire 1,000 addit air-traff control , and make airport improvements. it would also extend for 10 year the essenti air servic program , which provid subsidi to airlin serv small and medium-s communiti that might otherwis have inadequ servic . 
 bendix corp. , southfield , mich. for inform : circl 523 on reader card up to 64 asynchron circuit use privat phone line , or switch twx , telex , or wat line in ani combin , can be accommod by this firm 's initi product in the digit telecommun market. call redecom , the unit also handl up to three synchron circuit use the binari synchron communic mode to serv up to 512 termin . 
 the 12 district , in turn , would be requir to vote within 18 month on consolid into six districts. stockhold in product credit associ and land bank associ that serv the same geograph area would then vote on merg . 
 atlant richfield 's primari concern appear to be the alaskan oil that it and humbl had struck , which it want to bring to the east coast . the compani view machia as the prospect site of a new refineri use some combin of regular domest , alaskan , and foreign crude and serv the new england and other eastern market . 
 amtrak should be privat not onli to remov it burden on taxpay but to find out exact where and in what form interc rail transport is econom viable. the postal servic argu that it privat would disadvantag remot , hard-to-servic area that are now cross-subsid , but the parcel servic that alreadi compet with uncl sam do n't seem to have troubl find way to serv custom . 
 it is expect to be complet in the spring of 1988. colgat said it chose the site becaus it locat can best serv the compani 's midwest and northeast market . 
 if an airlin has mistreat you , file a complaint with the civil aeronaut board in washington , d.c. do n't expect immedi result from these letters. some critic believ that the feder regulatori agenc have much more sympathi with the industri they regul than with the custom whom those industri serv and there is a good deal of evid to support this view . 
 it was $ 98 a year ago. fare are also rise in a few market that are n't even domin by a carrier , particular if peopl express serv the market . 
 american telephon & telegraph co. said the treasuri award it an $ 86 million contract for a digit telecommun system. at & t is to provid a 26,000-line switch system to serv all treasuri offic in metropolitan washington . 
 youth plan is fair practic between big airport that schedul plenti of flight for you to fall back on , but it 's peril between two-flights-a-day towns. what 's more , small airlin ( which serv small town ) do n't honor the youth plan but have plan of their own , most of them less econom . 
 centuri said it expect to be join in the acquisit and manag of communiti cablevis by ml media partner l.p. , it partner in the puerto rican cable-tv compani it alreadi operates. centuri said it own or oper 45 cable-tv system that serv 690,000 primari subscrib in 21 state and puerto rico . 
 the transport depart gave final approv to american airlin to acquir aci hold inc. for $ 225 million. the depart said the takeov would n't substanti reduc competit on rout serv by both american and aci hold ' unit , aircal , becaus other carrier provid competit servic . 
 rollin burdick , an insur brokerag concern , said it will merg adam & porter with it texa operations. the compani said the acquisit will signific strengthen it commit to serv the southwest and bring expertis in the field of marin and energi insur . 
 texa air corp. 's continent airlin unit critic the rule becaus it appli onli to the 27 largest airports. the carrier , which said it will ask that the rule be expand to includ all market serv by the carrier , said consum also should be given a singl number indic an airlin 's on-tim perform throughout the system . 
 the credit card oper , bank of america card servic , has asset of about $ 26 million. it serv 115,000 cardhold and 35,000 merchant in the west german market . 
 the util plan to use the addit revenu for plant invest and oper expens , the compani added. manchest gas serv about 18,000 custom in the manchest area . 
 while there is no doubt that the c. c. r. posit would be endors by most young peopl enter busi today , it rais at least as mani question as it answers. it can be argu that , within the boundari set by law and social custom , busi should inde maxim profit if it is to oper effici and truli serv societi well . 
 the new presid and chief execut offic say the compani is approach by potenti suitor `` all the time. '' they come most from the publish industri , which hammond serv . 
 a display featur the latest in electr heat pumps. in the `` video center , '' businessmen think about set up shop in georgia can punch a button and see everi avail industri site in the state that is serv by georgia powerplus a videotap introduct to georgia by southern co. chairman edward addison , either in english or dub in japanes or german . 
 the note , which could have been payabl next march 31 , repres a potenti liabil of about $ 20 million. the compani , which serv market in electron and electr part , custom-engin product and swim pool , said elimin of the note will rais sharehold equiti 11 % as it carri $ 7.5 million of the potenti liabil on it balanc sheet at the end of the second quarter . 
 nynex corp. increas it quarter dividend 9.2 % , to 95 cent a share from 87 cent , payabl may 1 to share of record march 31. the compani said the dividend reflect a confid in it abil to tap `` the great potenti of the expand market we serv . '' 
 but with europ in a slump , job are hard to come by. the executive-plac firm usual serv onli the largest british corpor and have littl contact with smaller compani that might hire an american if they knew he was avail . 
 the debt and interest would be exchang for as much as $ 8.6 million face amount of 12 % senior subordin note due 1994 ; as much as $ 23.6 million face amount of 9.35 % convert debentur due 1997 ; as mani as 16.5 million digicon common share ; and as much as $ 22.1 million face amount of extinguish debt certificates. digicon , a survey and data-process concern that serv the oil industri , said the certif will expir without valu if the new senior subordin note and convert debentur are redeem , retir or convert in a time manner . 
 the wholesal food distributor , which oper nationwid , attribut the result to `` difficulti in northern california where divis have been affect by an excess inventori buildup and result increas in expenses. '' the compani said it recent close a distribut facil in richmond , calif. , that serv about 360 retail food store becaus the facil was `` small and could n't be renov or enlarg . '' 
 under mr. eli , who becam chief execut in earli 1985 , converg has embark on a new strategi to creat what it call a `` feder '' of softwar compani special in applic for small businesses. mr. smith said converg 's softwar activ , includ subsidiari serv auto dealership , beverag distributorship and lumber yard , current account for about a third of the compani 's revenu , with the remaind come from converg 's tradit original-equip , or oem , comput busi . 
 they are britain and franc , head a european consortium , and , more recent , japan and china. all have run into difficulti in design larg rocket booster ; the european group , which want to develop a region communic satellit of it own to serv western europ , has had special difficulti . 
 sunday , dec. 28 , 9-10 p.m. et , on wnyw in new york ; various date and time in other market serv by orbi communic ( check local list ) : `` the entrepreneur , program iii , expand america . '' 
 the util said it expect a decis by may , but that it has n't yet decid when it might take the write-down. wppss , a municip power suppli system , undertook an ambiti plan to build five nuclear power plant to serv the northwest . 
 it was divid into pen of various size by heavi wire mesh stretch between a framework of tube , so that the cage anim were alway in sight of anyon in the four personnel corridor which ran fore and aft along the side of the enclosure. the food and water dispens also differ in size and complex , and were fit to the common wall between two cage so as to serv both . 
 similar , lack of space at lackawanna demand construct of huge cylindr filter tank , spread around differ part of the plant , in which process water is now filter to crystal clariti befor it is releas back into lake erie. at burn harbor , where low-slung build stretch over 3,300 acr of land , bethlehem engin were abl to build a central treatment facil to serv the entir plant . 
 mr. fickl said the compani will concentr on it psychiatr facil , which repres it most profit segment. `` we have an aggress expans program to bring freestand psychiatr hospit to communiti that have n't been serv , '' he said . 
 they spent year build a compani that mani peopl in this predomin black citi had hope would anchor a strong black busi sector. the compani still serv the communiti , but the new owner is white . 
 he said sas also want to determin the outcom of talk that could lead to the liber of air travel between the u.s. and scandinavia. sas hope to receiv approv from u.s. author to fli to an unlimit number of american destin , instead of the four u.s. citi it current can serv . 
 most open their door to ventur of ani kind. but now , newer incub are take a page from compani founder themselv by adopt nich strategi and serv specif industri segment . 
 piedmont 's baltimor hub and usair 's hub in washington would give the new compani a strong presenc in the region. moreov , the merger would combin two of the best balanc sheet in the industri along with similar pay scale , compat fleet of medium-rang aircraft and a common histori of prosper by serv second-ti hub like pittsburgh and charlott , n.c . 
 trygv mhyren , chief execut offic of time inc. 's 80 % -own american televis & communic inc. , say , `` we would n't pay $ 2,000 ( per subscrib ) for everyth , but we re will to do it for thing that make sens , '' for exampl , system that are geograph contigu to exist american televis markets. mr. mhyren say that sinc last august his compani has bought cabl system serv 80,000 subscrib at price rang between $ 1,200 and $ 2,000 per subscrib . 
 the wall street journal/europ will transmit full-pag imag of each issu via satellit from it print center in heerlen , the netherland , to the ringier plant. the plant will serv subscrib and newsstand buyer in switzerland , itali , austria , and southern germani . 
 but mr. zeeman maintain that ual has been abl to achiev sever cost savings. for exampl , the compani can demand discount price from supplier who want to serv both unit and hertz . 
 the propos purchas is in line with converg 's strategi , under paul c. eli , chairman and chief execut offic , to creat what it has call a feder of softwar compani special in applic for small businesses. the softwar activ serv , for exampl , auto dealer , beverag distributor and lumber yard . 
 as a trade associ serv 1,250 of the u.s. 's and canada 's finest health , racquet and athlet club , we winc when we read your april 3 second-front-pag articl `` fiscal fit : effort to regul health club fail to end abus . '' 
 public servic has said it has enough cash to pay it bill until the end of the year. eastern main , which serv about 9,400 rural custom , has annual revenu of about $ 6.5 million , said jame l. dean iii , general manag . 
 `` the onli news that move the market at all ( friday ) has been the continu debat about whether the ( reagan ) administr is will to let the dollar fall further , '' said daniel o'connel , senior dealer at first nation bank of chicago. mr. o'connel said the market perk up on a report by market news servic , a small wire servic serv main currenc and bond trader . 
 the rate concern cite emerg rate increas recent grant by louisiana and texa regulators. gulf state , which serv the slump petrochemical-produc region of the gulf coast , has been seek higher rate to pay for it $ 4.4 billion river bend nuclear plant in st. francisvill , la . 
 avx and vishay said they expect to continu oper all the divis ' plant and will offer employ to most of the 2,600 corn employe world-wid in those operations. corn said it will continu to serv it electron custom until the transact are complet , which is expect by year-end . 
 britt airway , a commut carrier that texa air acquir when it purchas peopl express inc. last year , will replac royal 's role as a region feeder for continent in the market where royal flew. royal alreadi was smart from a declin in passeng traffic and revenu -- it serv primarili busi traffic in the depress oil patch . 
 the cotton gin brought to the south the onli part of the industri revolut with which it found no fault and which it adopt more wide than all other manufactur devices. the steam engin was adopt princip to serv the gin or to transport the stapl it process . 
 new york-bas nynex corp. is a member of anoth group that want to lay a transatlant phone cabl on the ocean floor. both compani serv larg number of busi and financi custom and see intern transmiss of data as a larg growth market . 
 the note are due march 20 , 1990. salli mae , a financi intermediari serv the educ credit market , said proceed will be use for general corpor purpos . 
 opec has , of cours , reviv the fixed-pric system onc , and possibl could do it again. but oil execut and analyst maintain that the collaps of the system that has serv opec and the rest of the oil industri so well for decad is an egg that ca n't be unscrambl . 
 the abbrevi use in this volum for degre grant by individu institut are list and explain below. this section of the guid includ those colleg that provid limit residenti facil and / or serv primarili a local student bodi . 
 in addit , almost 1,000 ibmer now work full time at larg compani ' data centers. last year , ibm ad 70 special team to the 130 that each serv one major custom ; it is ad 200 more . 
 no tucker for them here now , but they ll come back with the wet . `` this was echo next day by a girl in white cliff , a ghost town that onc serv a cluster of opal mine . 
 the denver & rio grand western railroad unit of rio grand industri is a 2,500-mile system between utah and kansa citi , mo. the combin would creat one of the five largest rail system in the u.s. , a 15,500-mile system serv 14 state . 
 occident petroleum corp. said it subsidiari in the unit kingdom would declar a forc majeur in it north sea oper on friday if pipelin repair continu to interrupt oil product there. the energi and agricultural-product concern said the pipelin repair have halt product at the flotta termin , which serv the piper , scapa and claymor field oper by the occident unit and two field oper by texaco north sea u.k. ltd. , a unit of texaco inc . 
 the icc recent schedul oral argument for may 14 on whether it should reopen the case. mr. reed , who began his career at santa fe in 1939 , first propos in 1980 the merger of the two railroad , which serv extens part of the west and southwest , but could reach no agreement at the time with his longtim rival , benjamin biaggini , then-chairman of the southern pacif co . 
 traffic on the ben franklin bridg , for exampl , has drop between 2 and 3 percent , as measur dure a twenty-four-hour period . that may not sound like much of a reduct , but it came about despit substanti growth in the number of peopl and automobil in the region serv by the line . 
 this notion was akin to the child 's notion that live in a hotel is free becaus you do n't pay for anyth , you onli sign your name ; that is to say , the notion is true some of the time but time do come when it is not true . such a time came for the advertis busi , along with the economi it serv , with the 1930 's . 
 eastern start the `` moonlight special '' in april 1985 from houston. the flight , which serv 18 citi , were move to chicago 's o'har airport this februari . 
 in august 1982 , the compani receiv a 4.26 % annual rate increas , or $ 39.6 million. at that time , the commiss said that in it next rate increas , the compani should bring the differ rate of return for it various custom group more in line with the actual cost of serv them . 
 rupert murdoch 's news corp. plan to sell a major stake in sky channel , it european cabl satellit servic , to investor in countri the system serv . 
 the legisl see it as offer feder aid in place of the current litigation-stal plan for stronger unit to bail out weaker ones. `` the longer these court case stay out , the longer the poorer bank are go to be in jeopardi , '' said rep. fred grandi ( r. , iowa ) , whose congression district is serv by the system 's struggl omaha , neb. , district . 
 continent airlin said it will establish a `` mini-hub '' in cleveland while it lay the groundwork for further growth at that airport later this year. the texa air corp. unit is increas daili departur to 25 from 16 juli 1 , and is doubl the number of citi it serv nonstop from cleveland to 10 . 
 utilicorp unit inc. said it receiv the approv of the west virginia public servic commiss to acquir west virginia power from dominion resourc inc. for $ 19 million. the util said it sign a definit agreement in septemb 1985 to buy west virginia power , which serv 22,000 electr custom . 
 the problem becom not one of tri to stop compani from grow larg this is imposs and not even desirable. the problem is to keep the giant in a genuin competit posit so that they will serv the consum well , and not grow at his expens . 
 when presid reagan 's new commiss on privat discuss recent what govern asset could be sold , former secretari of defens melvin laird , now a counselor for reader 's digest , call for exempt the postal servic from such an examination. mr. laird , who admit he had a conflict of interest becaus the digest is the servic 's largest privat postal custom , said that rural area would not be serv if `` the cream of the crop { were } skim off . '' 
 this compact had two aspects. first , in return for a monopoli franchis , util accept an oblig to serv all comer . 
 canadian nation is own by the canadian government. terra nova , base in gander , newfoundland , serv 50,000 subscrib in part of newfoundland and labrador , and is expect to report net incom for 1987 of four million canadian dollar ( $ 3.1 million ) on revenu of 46 million dollar . 
 she ad that when the account was introduc in march 1984 , the compani oper onli three full-servic thrift unit outsid new york. she said citicorp intend to reli more heavili on those unit , as well as other acquir sinc then , to serv individu custom . 
 the water you so casual speak of is more often to be found in the wall and on the floor than in the conveni wash basin or bath to which you are accustom . i ve visit home of some of these children where water for a famili in an upstair flat had to be fetch by bucket or pail from the singl back-yard tap which serv five or six famili . 
 in give it tentat go-ahead , the transport agenc said that usair and psa oper larg in differ region of the country. usair 's princip hub is pittsburgh , and of the 83 airport the airlin serv , onli about a dozen are west of st. louis. psa serv 29 airport , most on the west coast . 
 at yesterday 's close price , those share have an indic valu of about $ 84 million. on the basi of subscrib serv , the partnership are near as valuabl as the public company. essex serv about 63,000 subscrib , it four partnership about 62,000 . 
 nabanco holder will receiv 30 % of the purchas price in cash and 70 % in first financi common with a valu of $ 27 a share for the initi payment , the compani said. nabanco , which serv 15,000 custom , had 1986 revenu of $ 122 million , first financi said . 
 but schedul air carrier are still the safest form of transport known to mankind. if there are adequ resourc for the faa to hire and train control , inspector and technician , to improv airport , and to develop and procur new equip , the u.s. aviat system will continu to improv and to serv the economi and the american peopl extraordinarili well . 
 the 31-branch west german unit , monchengladbach-bas bankhaus central credit ag , had total year-end asset of about $ 500 million , bankamerica said. the credit card oper , bank of america card servic , frankfurt , has asset of about $ 28 million and serv about 115,000 custom in west germani . 
 alaska air group , parent of alaska airlin , said it was unabl to reach `` satisfactori '' terms. san juan airlin serv washington 's puget sound area with 12 aircraft . 
 acton corp. said it acton catv inc. unit complet the previous announc sale of it utah cable-televis properti to insight communic co. , new york , for $ 24.5 million. the utah properti , most of which are near salt lake citi , serv about 16,000 subscrib in 14 citi . 
 they re oper now with one sigma 7 but hope to have multiple-comput process and 10,000 custom termin instal in the los angel area within a year. ultim the compani want to serv everi larg metropolitan area in the countri through `` sever larg center , `` but right now it 's still `` think local . '' 
 usair oper primarili in the east and midwest. psa serv 29 airport , main on the west coast . 
 moodi 's investor servic inc. said the agreement , if complet , could lead to a possibl downgrad of rate on chemic 's $ 1.3 billion of debt , and to a possibl upgrad of rate on texa commerc 's $ 250 million of debt. chemic , known for it expertis in serv consum and middle-market compani , expect to help texa commerc expand it retail bank oper , an area in which texa commerc is n't consid strong . 
 but the deal hang on whether the british aircraft corpor decid to re-open it vc10 product line , shut down near a year ago . first countri to be serv by the new airlin : albania , tanzania , algeria , congo-brazzavill and iraq . 
 the gi 's letter home was publish in the akron , ohio , beacon journal on march 27 , 1967 , and cite in in the name of america , a studi of u.s. militari behavior in vietnam publish in 1968 by the clergi and laymen concern about vietnam . terri reid 's account of action in the 11th brigad was publish by the paper , a daili newspap serv central wisconsin : `` fond du lac gi say viet slaughter `` common , `` `` by allen ekval . 
 the publish compani said it expect to complet the sale by year 's end. woodburi , n.y.-bas cablevis alreadi own one-third of sportschannel , which serv subscrib in new england , new york , chicago and philadelphia . 
 the cost of the bakeri was n't disclosed. the two new bakeri repres a new market for staley , which had not previous serv mcdonald 's facil in those countri , a spokesman said . 
 but glass may give way to plastics. '' howev , richard ringoen , ball 's chairman , presid and chief execut offic , said , `` we are look at this combin as a good busi opportun for our compani , as well as a strengthen commit on our part to serv the glass contain market . '' 
 specif , the commiss said the establish carrier could abandon the present rate-mak system to meet competit . this system averag the cost of serv high- and low-dens area . 
 but america west subsequ drop it object , and the orang counti board of supervisor agre to provid twa with two slot at the airport to allow it to begin servic there. in addit , american agre to give up two of it slot at the airport ; the counti board assign them to ual inc. 's unit airlin , which also will begin serv the airport . 
 it probabl will involv the sale or close of a construction-equip tire plant in bloomington , ill. , and a farm tire plant in des moin , iowa , mr. nevin said. fireston is seek to sell the plant , which serv market that have shrunk drastic , to employe or to merg them into anoth produc to preserv job , mr. nevin said . 
 american cablesystem corp. said a subsidiari agre in principl to acquir a cabl televis system in the los angel area from heritag communic inc. for $ 15.5 million. the subsidiari , american cablesystem of california inc. , propos to buy a system that serv eight communiti in los angel counti and has about 12,000 subscrib , the parent said . 
 the sale is subject to regulatori approv and other condit and is expect to be complet within 120 day , adams-russel said. the cable-tv system serv about 51,000 subscrib in rockford , love park , machesney park , cherri valley , morristown and winnebago counti , ill. , the compani ad . 
 one reason for the emphasi on job search is that it is relat cheap. the program can serv more recipi if they help them look for exist job than if they tri to provid them with expens train or govern job . 
 mr. breskovich contend that much of the current clamor to plug the loophol come from shore-bas process plant in alaska , which he consid inadequ to compet with factori ship process at sea. catcher ship serv a mother factori ship travel onli 20 to 30 mile to unload , while those serv shore plant often go 200 mile or more , he say . 
 if sovereignti at bay is right , the time of these enterpris also will be finite. and the new wave of multin enterpris just offstag will be no less indispens , no less domin and , ala , even more tension beget in the countri they serv than those that went befor . 
 there is a jamaican broadcast station own by the govern . it serv the entir island . `` 
 base on rochest 's close price of $ 44.75 a share in composit trade yesterday on the new york stock exchang , the transact has a total valu of about $ 26.3 million. enterpris , which serv about 15,700 access line in a territori between harrisburg , pa. , and philadelphia , will becom rochest telephon 's third telephon oper compani in pennsylvania . 
 scripps-howard broadcast , a subsidiari of scripp howard , a close held communic concern , said the sale is expect to boost it 1987 earn by about $ 18.1 million , or about $ 1.75 a share , although a final transact amount wo n't be determin until certain post-clos adjust have been made. scripps-howard broadcast sold it interest in system serv about 121,000 subscrib in fairfield counti and the bridgeport area . 
 the guid , which had revenu of about $ 30 million last year , tailor list to individu cabl systems. mr. broyl , who in addit to his newsweek post was the found editor of texa month magazin , said , `` the magazin 's reader use it all month long , and the opportun to continu improv how it serv it reader is an excit one . '' 
 weichert realtor inc. said it acquir ad & p realtor , parent of andrew , dickinson & pinkston , an independ agenc base in west chester , pa. , that serv six philadelphia-area counti and delawar . 
 ps group has interest in oil and gas explor and jet-fuel market , among other things. pacif southwest serv 29 airport , primarili on the west coast . 
 the investor group includ american-standard 's presid , terri a. tevis. the memphi , tenn.-bas print unit , which now will oper under the name american signatur graphic , serv magazin , catalog and commerci market . 
 the depart said the takeov would n't substanti reduc competit on rout serv by both american and aci hold ' unit , aircal , becaus other carrier provid competit service. the agenc also said there is no evid that other carrier ca n't obtain need facil at 13 of the 14 airport serv by both airlin . 
 some colleg seek activ to attract a divers student bodi that reflect the varieti geograph , econom , racial , religi , and cultur of the entir nation. other institut are design to serv a specif clientel member of a particular church , resid of a given area , or individu interest in some special field of studi . 
 instead , they pull up the drawbridg over their moat and fight to protect their monopoli franchises. mani have good reason : insan regulatori polici often prevent them from meet competit or oblig them to remain prepar to meet the futur need of custom who have chosen to be serv by a competitor . 
 henri seidel canbi , one of america 's foremost men of letter , was a non-friend who attend the quaker school in wilmington , delawar , in the 1890 's . of this experi he wrote : at first the academi , serv both boy and girl , were govern by the strictest rule . 
 `` avia stand more for technic ( perform ) side of the busi and reebok , the fashion side , '' she said. `` as long as reebok and avia can serv differ part of the market , they will serv a bigger part of the market . '' 
 the general manag call in local airlin execut in the summer when he get his schedul for the come season . sinc each of the nhl club is in a major citi , there are sever major airlin serv his citi and the general manag usual is abl to take care of most of his reserv . 
 the carrier said american eagl will offer the same level of servic as american and will add one flight between burbank and oakland. a wing west spokeswoman said the carrier plan to buy 10 jet , with 50 to 68 seat each , to serv the american rout and other rout that wing west plan to add . 
 the step would rais an addit $ 1.7 billion in tax for the govern over the next five years. but account believ the surg in volum will serious hamper their abil to serv small-busi client . 
 the council nomin success candid for four year . at present the consult committe which serv the coal and steel communiti is made up of employ , worker mani of whom are trade unionist and a `` general interest `` group . 
 the justic refus to hear a challeng to a 1984 feder law that prohibit cross-ownership of televis station and cabl system serv the same communiti . 
 asarco inc. announc the format of a technic servic center to provid consult in engin , environment scienc , research and security. the center , which will be base in salt lake citi , consolid the mine compani 's depart of environment scienc , research and engin into a singl unit that will serv both asarco and outsid organ . 
 other build their properti around a golf cours or natur lake and then use these facil as basic sell point to justifi the entir project. most of the time , though , facil that serv the communiti commerci and cultur grow up around it . 
 eventu it hope to be abl to use twenty-four lockhe l-1011 tristar it has that mani on order now which seem well suit to delta 's medium-s rout . ( but , like all tristar custom , delta has had some larg uncertainti about the plane in the wake of the bankruptci of rolls-royc , and has order five dougla dc-10 's . ) charl h. dolson , chief execut , feel that delta 's prime advantag is the fact that it serv the southeast and california , `` the two fastest-grow region in the countri . `` and although eastern air line was serv atlanta befor it did , delta has nevertheless manag to identifi itself with the growth of that citi , where it is now the largest employ . 
 but the compani can alter it rate for intrast long-dist call , busi system and other servic without regulatori permission. the compani agre to continu to modern vermont 's telephon network and to continu to provid telephon servic to all area of the state it now serv . 
 a special network. the nerv fiber which serv these organ form a special network of fiber . 
 the system spokesman said that the expect insolv was n't tie to that disput , and that if the increas reserv are eventu requir , the jackson bank would be deeper in the red. the system said the jackson bank is `` explor altern mean '' of stay in busi and serv it custom , but as of yesterday had n't develop a plan to do that . 
 mr. picken drop the bid after receiv a letter from kn refus his bid that he describ as `` insult and dishonest. '' lakewood , colo.-bas kn own three pipelin system that serv wholesal and retail custom in nebraska , kansa , wyom , texa and colorado . 
 the 70,000-kilowatt project will be built on the cowlitz river between riff lake and the town of randle. it will generat about 250 million kilowatt hour annual to serv the 21,000 resid of lewi counti , the close held construct and engin concern said . 
 owen butler , retir chairman of procter & gambl co. , is chairman of the committe 's panel on the educ disadvantaged. the committe recommend a `` radic redefinit '' and a `` fundament restructur '' of mani school that serv the disadvantag . 
 the public sector doe the best and most effici job of meet the need of peopl over age 65. the privat sector has had 20 year to tri to serv this market , and has fail . 
 if branch restrict keep them sole or almost sole within a troubl farm area , such a lend polici is to be expect -- inde ani other polici would be stupid. a nationwid bank would be much freer to construct a lend polici that would better serv the area . 
 lawrenc k. altman in new york time if the kid ca n't go to the dentist , then the dentist must come to the kid . that 's the philosophi behind the `` smilemobil `` a 40-foot van run by the nonprofit children 's dental health servic in rochest , n.y. , which serv near 1000 inner-c youngster . 
 angel castillo , an attorney and former report brought in last year as associ manag editor for news to lead the paper 's effort in becom more relev to hispan , say chang has been pain slow. `` the herald still has fewer peopl at the execut level in the news depart than it need both to reflect the communiti it serv and to be abl to understand that communiti , '' say mr. castillo . 
 om was expect to request except treatment for this , so it look as if they re look forward to purchas be made . a system simul facil serv all feder agenc will be establish by the air forc and general servic administr sometim this year and , it is learn , may be in busi by juli 1 . 
 he had onli come to offer his time and experi to the provinci author . they should call on him if ever ... a middl school serv torregreca and four other township need a director : don arrigo 's appoint was entir logic . 
 your rational is flaw becaus it is base on an impli premis that suitabl secondari airport are available. there is in fact a dire and increas shortag of general-avi airport to serv metropolitan area . 
 nwa said that as it adjust to it larger domest airlin system , improv schedul should make for a more effici oper , bring cost down. the compani said it plan chang in it comput system in the month ahead that will hope serv passeng more quick and effici . 
 term were n't disclosed. frostex , which serv texa , oklahoma , louisiana and part of arkansa , had sale of $ 92 million in fiscal 1986 . 
 there are more than two million scatter across the country. our noxontown pond was origin a marsh , dam in 1736 to serv the gristmil of thoma noxon . 
 the new unit , which has asset of $ 1.7 billion , will oper under the name crossland save fsb. the parent compani , which has asset of more than $ 10 billion , said the acquisit will allow it `` to serv the attract california market as well as other key complementari western market . '' 
 the compani has offic in 30 citi and local servic in more than 40 . the network is serv by 22 comput system 19 xds 940 's , one sigma 7 , and two pdp-10 's . 
 western is a cable-televis and microwave-system concern. marcus own and oper cabl tv system in minnesota , wisconsin and pennsylvania , serv about 135,000 subscrib . 
 at this write , accord to it presid , william lonergan , it had sign up one ( which could n't be name becaus of legal complic involv , of cours , communic ) and was talk to `` 8 to 10 other . `` telemax has contract with 12 airlin includ american , a hold-out from the group that was contract with atar , which it serv through an interfac to the airlin ' sabr system . 
 whi ? electr is move into market onc serv by oil and natur gas . 
 the compani is the u.s. subsidiari of yamaichi secur co. , which it said is japan 's oldest invest company. yamaichi intern said the exchang membership will enhanc it abil to serv investor world-wid . 
 the wall are line with sticki sideboard , cover with cloudi , crack decant , basin of tin , and pile of thick , blue-bord china plate that were manufactur at tournai . in one corner , there is a box with number compart that serv to hold the boarder ' napkin , spot with greas and wine . 
 bear , stearn & co. will manag the offer. the offer fit mark iv 's strategi of buy specialti manufactur that serv nich market consid too small for larg compani and too complic and expens for small compani . 
 the audit said carolina power should have anticip the cancel of three of the origin four harri unit and that alleg `` excess cost '' could have been avoid , princip by redesign the plant in 1975 from a singl four-unit facil to two two-unit plant , carolina power said. the report contend that the redesign would have reduc the cost associ with the common facil that now serv the harri unit 1 , but which were origin design to serv four unit , the compani said . 
 the net gain includ $ 198 million from the sale of most of the real estat invest of it real estat unit and $ 13 million from the reorgan of it invest in alcoa of great britain. those gain were part offset by the follow charg : $ 14 million as a result of the effect of excess world-wid ship capac on it steamship oper ; $ 13 million relat to it invest in venezuela and to a joint ventur serv the oil and gas industri ; and $ 46 million for write-off from the shutdown of it lancast , pa. , plant , consolid of two ingot plant at alcoa , tenn. , and withdraw from a joint ventur to build a magnesium plant . 
 the limit 's rise from $ 133,250 last week enabl 200,000 purchas to avoid higher charg associ with mortgag that exceed the ceiling. a perman freez would restrict fanni mae 's and freddi mac 's `` continu encroach on the market serv by privat firm , '' the budget said . 
 it said detail -- and the spin-off itself -- are expect in the next three to six month , subject to a rule from the intern revenu servic that the transact would be tax-fre to both ic and it shareholders. in the past sever year , ic has sold part of the railroad , cut it from a 9,600-mile system to it current core of 3,000 mile serv market between chicago , st. loui , memphi and new orlean . 
 they are kwex , san antonio , texa ; kmex , los angel ; wx-tv , patterson , n.j. ; wl-tv , miami , and kf-tv , hanford , calif. five are so-cal low-pow televis station , which general serv much smaller audienc than the convent one . 
 state and local family-plan outlay for 1971 are n't avail , but if we compar feder expenditur that year of $ 65 million with spend at all level of govern in 1981 , $ 377 million , we find onli a 2.58-fold constant-dollar increas , a far cri from the 20-fold report by mr. weed. it is true , as mr. weed state , that feder fund family-plan clinic serv 1.5 million teen-ag in the u.s. yet he fail to mention that 11 million teen-ag are sexual activ . 
 first southern feder save & loan associ said it sharehold approv chang the compani 's name to altus bank and it charter to a feder save bank from a save & loan association. the mobil , ala.-bas thrift institut said the name chang , which is up for consider at it annual meet , was a result of the similar between first southern and the name of various other compani in area it serv . 
 complet of the transact is expect by june 30 , 1988. mt baker , with asset of $ 164 million and deposit of $ 110 million , repres a strateg access to area of washington state not current serv by u.s. bancorp or it unit , u.s. bancorp said . 
 the result by the two bell hold compani reflect contrast region economies. san francisco-bas pacif telesi , whose phone compani unit serv econom vibrant california and nevada , show grow demand for service. on the other hand , the five-st territori serv by st. louis-bas southwestern bell includ texa and oklahoma , whose economi are tatter . 
 in fact , given the high develop u.s. transport infrastructur , few if ani shipper are truli `` captiv '' to rails. the best case is made by electr util that have power plant serv by coal-haul road , but big util do n't lack bargain power . 
 typic , partner in cabl ventur put their own traffic on the cabl and leas capac to others. most intern cabl ventur are own by a consortium of concern includ countri serv by the cabl . 
 gulf state join a long list of major util whose solvenc has been thrust into doubt over nuclear plants. most notabl , new orleans-bas middl south util inc. , which like gulf state serv the huge petrochem corridor of the gulf coast , recent avert financi failur by receiv last-minut rate increas for it huge grand gulf plant . 
 piedmont 's baltimor hub and usair 's hub in washington would give the new compani a strong presenc in that region. such a merger would combin two of the best balanc sheet in the industri along with similar pay scale , compat fleet of medium-rang aircraft and a common histori of prosper by serv second-ti hub like pittsburgh and charlott , n.c . 
 it is n't known whether the ir will tri to collect the tax from such concerns. long weekend : tri to spread out plea for help by toll-fre phone , ir assist serv new england and upstat new york are take call from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. on saturday and sunday through april 12 . 
 the upshot , for all practic purpos , is no competit at all. retail testifi that no dairi other than the one serv them ever solicit their business. antonio puccio , a brooklyn store owner , testifi that when he explicit offer his patronag to a dairi other than the one serv him , he was refus . 
 the compani said it is also ad execut to it senior manag team. sanford i. weill , commerci credit 's chairman and chief execut offic , said the new structur would enabl the compani to `` elimin duplic , increas product and effici and better serv our custom . '' 
 among other thing , invest banker arrang merger and acquisit , currenc swap and privat financings. richard j. boyl , chase 's recent appoint vice chairman in charg of the global bank , said in an interview : `` we are marshal our forc to better serv our custom global . 
 `` he may lose all popular support , but someon has to kill him to defeat him and that 's hard to do. '' 
 clever white hous `` spin doctor '' are have a hard time help presid bush explain away the econom bash that low-and middle-incom worker are take these day . 
 i find it hard to believ that the sacramento river will ever be quit the same , although i certain wish that i 'm wrong . 
 now when you get bad credit data or are confus with anoth person , the hard part in correct the mistak is not even know where it is record , let alon have access . 
 'a great share of respons for this nation tragedi unquestion lie with the presid of the country. ' -- eduard shevardnadz , former foreign minist ; we are so deep in this crisi that all this busi about leav the parti , not leav the parti -- that will never get us out. ' -- natasha , a moscow bookkeep ; our life is harder now , yes , but it is better to be hungri and free. ' -- lena sedykh , a moscow street sweeper ; if you judg by astrolog , gorbachev is cancer , and yeltsin and russia are aquarius . 
 produc of action show , like cannel , are will to make them at a bargain price to help cbs open up a new market for one-hour action show , which have becom hard to sell in the rerun market . 
 vote against seek addit sourc of fund was supervisor ray belgard , who told his colleagu , `` we have to face the hard fact of life . 
 it 's hard to make the column even , to neat space the text insid the cell of the tabl , to adjust the tabl when inform need to be ad , to make except to stretch entri across sever cell , to add period color or shade to cell , and so on . 
 `` it may be hard just to finish these remarks. '' 
 now that amanda blake has die , is it hard portray matt dillon without miss kitti ? 
 even though mani of the univers 's 30 , 638 student are more conserv and career-ori than their 60s and 70s predecessor , and it 's harder to drum up big crowd for a protest than it use to be , telegraph retain a mystic -- if mangi -- aura . 
 it 's hard to put into word , but sinc that day i ve felt much more confid . 
 it 's hard to believ i 'm see it start to rise out of the ground , `` sheriff harvey nyland said after a groundbreak ceremoni . 
 `` and we are pleas to announc that alreadi coke , pepsi and other have express enthusiasm and interest in particip in this expand mtv servic , further support their alreadi establish use of mtv as a vehicl to attract the hard-to-reach 12-34-year-old demographic. '' 
 `` chang was not hard for him , `` said his daughter , dian nelson of santa maria . 
 i tri to have fun with everyth i do , but the hard part is i ll make a good pitch and i ll tri to make it better the next time out , `` he said . 
 he 's the first to say that wife lisa is go through the hard part , but it was n't bad for a 25-year-old guy who 's expect to becom a first-tim pop ani day now . 
 it 's hard to ignor a voodoo-lik bent in her 28-inch iraqi dictat doll . 
 it also make the job hard . 
 find it hard to understand how anyon seek a posit in public life could demonstr such poor judgment and bad tast . 
 the slump in busi activ and the accompani `` credit crunch '' have been especi hard on owner of these high-yield , high-risk secur , whether they own them direct or through mutual fund . 
 the a 's : ; phoenix/temp ; there 's so much to do near phoenix stadium that it 's hard to decid where to fit in a spring train basebal game . 
 but if there are enough guy and they all have big stick or someth , it becom hard for ani dog. '' 
 old ladi are crotcheti and hard to pleas . 
 `` it 's ( becom ) harder to steal a car , `` said lt. jeann miller of the detroit polic depart 's major crime divis . 
 `` when you run by yourself , it 's hard to get motivated. '' 
 ( check ) it 's often hard to tell if a can is aluminum or steel . 
 despit all the rhetor , it is truli hard to make a case that big busi is overtax in california . 
 that is harder to bear. '' 
 as you walk through this verdant landscap , it is n't hard to get a sens of the area 's histori . 
 `` i have a hard time with the use of the word. '' 
 `` when you have a disast like the oakland hill fire , it 's hard to rememb everyth . 
 `` it was a uniqu project , a high-risk project , and it was put in such an unfortun time slot ( opposit 48 hour ' and quantum leap ' ) that it would be hard to get anyon interest in it . 
 `` four generat of our famili have come here , and everi year , it get harder to get in. '' 
 all the easi cut and a bunch of the hard one were made in bridg the $ 14 billion gap in june . 
 earlier studi suggest up-and-down diet make it harder to lose weight and may have unhealthi consequ . 
 it 's hard to control teen-ag ' behavior , but not imposs . 
 it 's hard to defin whether stewart mean he wo n't talk at all or whether he just wo n't tell the truth as he see it . 
 the slump economi unquestion has been hard on america 's citi , counti and school district . 
 after the fire , baldwin said , it has been hard for him to look at the sprawl brick plant , which he can see everi time he step out the front door of his apart . 
 the empir state build is a high-profil symbol that might be hard to resist . 
 he said it was hard for him to get up each morn and pick up his crutch , which he call `` my other set of legs. '' 
 and should fsu be undef after play the cougar , michigan , lsu , louisvill , south carolina , miami and florida , it ll be hard not to give them the titl . 
 despit lower home price and higher apartment-vac rate , the nation 's poor are find it harder than ever to find decent , afford hous , a studi said this week . 
 diamond are hard to get . 
 there have been so mani revel against bettelheim recent that it is hard to know what to make of them all , said dr. loui jolyon west , a professor of psychiatri at ucla . 
 the crew member wait with the pothol becaus if they left -- and you may find this hard to believ -- impati driver would simpli mow down the laugh cone and plow right over the crew 's handiwork . 
 it 's hard enough have one success mysteri charact -- how doe smith manag two ? 
 it 's aw hard to achiev a balanc , but parent need to appli common sens and listen to their gut reactions. '' 
 the miami dolphin found out the hard way sunday : the silverdom is no place to come for a parti . 
 this time around the condit are differ and the choic is far harder . 
 pat hurst , who made the jump from amateur to profession golf six week ago , is learn the hard way that mistak can be cost . . . in the pocketbook . 
 `` the field is hard out there , so i 'm not concern , `` said manag cito gaston , who believ defens cost the blue jay the east in 1990 . 
 but even fellow isra cabinet member find it hard to stop the hawkish hous minist who savor sprinkl the occupi land with new jewish settlement . 
 the world of comput is so huge that it 's hard to pick one program , peripher or processor , that show where the person comput is after 10 year . 
 but at least one firm familiar with the new law say a scarc suppli of comput profession may make it hard to reduc overtim benefit . 
 it 's harder to tell with banksid veget . 
 `` when it drag out two or three year , it 's hard for a union to sustain momentum , `` anderson said . 
 current servic consist of unlimit curbsid pickup in the citi 's flatland area at $ 16.73 per month and a variabl rate in the hard-to-serv hillsid area rang from $ 11.97 for one can to $ 20.30 for five can . 
 the first issu includ a news stori on a major sale of vintag jersey , a background piec on the uniqu style of hard-to-find 1970 cleveland indian shirt and a short list of 1991 uniform chang . 
 `` if you tri to pick out the separ voic in the chorus of whi denni eckart is leav , it is go to be hard , `` eckart ad . 
 `` this , `` said young , `` was a hard one . 
 to defend yourself : it 's hard not to be influenc , so `` just say no '' to slur campaign . 
 it 's veri hard to pick it apart into percentag . 
 `` he has a hard time complet a thought . 
 ( box ) mixed-sign chip are hard to make right the first time . 
 and it is hard enough refus a bonbon nowaday , without consid how one might polit refus to be serv a member of the household . 
 instead , oppon like hous speaker thoma foley , d-spokan , stood the argument on it ear , implor his home state 's voter not to throw away their hard-won polit power in a fit of piqu over unpaid restaur tab and bounc check . 
 bever hayon , spokeswoman for kaiser permanent medic care program , said `` it 's hard to see how ( this ) is go to stop the aid epidem . 
 if alli figur are anywher near correct -- it is hard to know , sinc a british report that 300 iraqi were kill at khafji shrank to 30 by the time the saudi brief a coupl of hour later -- the iraqi leader was given a bloodi nose . 
 `` it 's hard for us girl ! `` she say and laugh . 
 it 's hard to care . 
 `` they do n't have to make it harder than it alreadi is. '' 
 nonetheless , as hous resolut 1 is fast-track through the hous , the complex of legal languag defin what is or is n't a legitim busi necess in hire and promot worker make it veri hard for the bill 's sponsor to prove that it will not lead to quota in employ , as the administr charg . 
 origin , it attach recycl engin to bicycl , a popular mode of transport in the hard year that follow world war ii . 
 `` it 's hard to rest him , but when you ve got a guy like willi ( wilson ) in his place , it 's not so hard. '' 
 devin , howev , note that first nationwid must ultim achiev it goal of provid ford an averag annual return of 15 percent on it invest , someth that is increas hard to do in the troubl save and loan busi . 
 `` when i go home , it 's hard to even walk outsid , becaus i see the suffer of peopl , and it hurt me . 
 `` if a young boy who had a veri hard life becom a dope addict and then sudden turn it all around . . . is he less of a role model becaus he did n't go through the regular scenario of colleg , a b.a. and an m.a. and do someth in the communiti ? 
 he found it hard to be go the opposit direct of his teammat , who are a surpris 24-19 . 
 troubl is , when you re market a museum intern , it 's hard to explain that a garag is a high-tech attract . 
 the lawsuit cite case where differ consum ' report were mix togeth and said such inaccuraci are hard to correct . 
 it was come up on an hour sinc the final buzzer sound and still jordan look as if he 'd just heard the best or worst news of his life ; it was hard to tell . 
 until i hear the doctor say he 's ok , it 's go to be hard to concentr . 
 that 's sometim hard for us to keep in mind. '' 
 `` they are hard to get to , and there are no road for the rescu equip to travel on. '' 
 `` it 's a littl harder , a lot faster and a lot quicker than the race i saw on tv , `` basaca said . 
 it 's hard to imagin that ani american who has such prioriti would fess up about them to a pollster . 
 for the time be , consum can expect to have a harder time get loan and to pay more for them . 
 `` it 's not hard watch a team warm up to see how much athlet abil it has , `` shaw said . 
 howev , i found windowbas much harder to get close to than acefil . 
 nine year and two kid later , absolut quiet is hard to come by in our live . 
 it 's a littl harder to say becaus i have n't seen this cartoon and i did see `` littl mermaid. '' 
 `` it 's hard for me not to cri right now , `` he said . 
 hilton also wrote that the fire has been `` an extrem hard thing to deal with '' and that live with it memori `` for the rest of my life is a terribl burden. '' 
 tough reform plan ; last week , russian presid bori yeltsin said he was about to begin a seri of tough econom reform that at first would make life even harder for the averag person . 
 now , lamott say , canin 's gone through a coupl of hard , tens year write `` blue river. '' 
 `` let 's face it , men in boat have given the whale a hard time , `` said holli jaff , a capistrano beach offic manag make her second trip with cole . 
 that should make it even harder for the giant to swallow . 
 ferreira , who is recov from massiv wound on his left arm and side , vow to ride the wave again. ( dot ) page 1b ; at wide receiv , daniell schurr ; when you re a girl play wide receiv for a high school footbal team , it 's hard to avoid the limelight , but that 's the way daniell schurr of fremont 's irvington high want it -- no special attent , no special treatment . 
 it 's hard to know which psycholog complex -- the democrat ' or the republican ' -- hurt us more as a nation . 
 ( box ) for a hard crust , bake bread until it feel like a brick becaus crust soften as it cool . 
 `` the princ of tide ' is about tom wingo and his voic , and i think the film preserv that , and that 's a hard thing , `` said co-produc andrew karsch . 
 it 's cruelli hard to give up the sound of mob roar , `` run , jess , run. '' 
 i think it 's realli hard to laugh on camera at nothing. '' 
 hous speaker thoma foley , d-wash. , said it was hard to take bush 's suggest serious in light of exempt that bush enjoy from various law , includ the freedom of inform act and the law restrict lobbi by former govern offici . 
 the foreign minist said , no -- this film is not go to be shown abroad. ' `` ; `` the nasti girl , `` a big hit in berlin and munich , was harder to suppress . 
 it 's hard to imagin the cours of the civil right movement without the revelatori and shock fire hose and beat footag . 
 the small car made by the general motor corp. subsidiari offici went on sale oct. 25 , but quality-control standard made them hard to come by until recent at the more than 60 saturn dealership . 
 and the two most common with bed ' are that , one , it 's hard to put down and , two -- i heard this from two old ladi who 'd been given the book by their children -- that this is n't a novel , it 's about truth. '' 
 wes raynal , autoweek ; ( hbox ) ; `` low profil is pretti hard in a car this bright , a characterist that set the r/t apart from the taurus sho . 
 but keef said he might have reach a point in stanford 's system where it 's hard to improv the number that get notic -- his 21.2 point per game . 
 while the galant has been a success , mitsubishi recogn that it late entri into that nich make it hard to overcom the edg establish by the toyota and honda model . 
 rev. lou sheldon , head of the conserv tradit valu coalit in orang counti and a lead oppon of ab 101 , acknowledg that the longer it take wilson to approv the measur , the harder it will be for his group to collect enough valid signatur for a ballot issu . 
 it 's all harder than we ever imagin , and there is nowher to turn for help . 
 it 's hard to start a candidaci when you do n't know who your voter will be . 
 it is a sea of modernist vignett -- and while mani of them are superb in themselv , it 's hard not to wonder if the overal design was the result of polit compromis as much as architectur intent . 
 but it will be hard to take him out of the start lineup at this rate . 
 that someth is hard to pin down , a consist surpris off-cent fresh that 's friendly-fresh , not aggressive-fresh like `` twin peaks. '' 
 becaus schimpel teach math , a subject in which qualifi teacher are hard to find , she figur she 's more secur than mani . 
 still , it 's hard to be humbl . 
 `` whi is it so hard to admit a mistak was made '' in approv prozac ? 
 it is difficult to get reserv and even harder to get the name of a hotel where you are suppos to stay . 
 a lot of peopl have a hard enough time with this in mild weather . 
 it was veri hard to take. '' 
 `` it was hard to get use to , but i did. '' 
 ( hbox ) ; the hospit industri , with a critic labor shortag , is target potenti employe who may have a harder time in other field : beginn , older worker , student and mother of young children . 
 lawrenc adelman , an analyst and vice presid with dean witter reynold inc. , said , `` they re tri to come to grip with all their problem -- whether it be domest snack or intern snack or kfc -- make the hard decis in 1991 and go forward with a veri posit momentum into 1992. '' 
 `` for sheer ingratitud , this report is hard to beat . '' 
 the earli indic are that stadium club will remain hard to get . 
 you ought not to tri to stick it out ; that would onli make it harder for everi one . 
 `` so i do think if you give peopl what they want -- i guess it 's hard to determin what they want -- they re readi to support a museum. '' 
 suspect porn ; san francisco art photograph jock sturg learn this lesson the hard way in april 1990 after the manag of a photo-process lab report to the fbi that he had receiv negat of nude young girl . 
 it could be hard for a famili . 
 ( box ) 87 percent of all adult think parent today have a hard time make end meet . 
 in fact , it 's hard to think of a day of the week that this dopey new nbc clip show would be `` the best of. '' 
 he is make it hard for the a 's to keep him off the team . 
 `` it 's a hard languag to do with diplomaci . 
 `` i ve been in it 22 , 23 year now , and it was veri hard to fight , `` canol say . 
 the bush administr vehement oppos this provis , say it would lead to prolong appeal and make it harder to punish perpetr of heinous crime . 
 it was not unlik watch joe montana at work , make the hard play look easi . 
 `` it was still hard to leav . 
 it was the hardest loss i ve ever suffer , `` beckenhauer-hel said . 
 it 's hard to imagine. '' 
 back on the air : howard hesseman , back in charact as johnni fever on the new syndic `` wkrp in cincinnati , `` say the second time around is a lot harder . 
 in big d , it 's go saint : yes , it 's hard to believ , is n't it ? 
 the work is so collabor ; it 's hard for the origin vision to surviv intact . 
 time were hard , and money and job were scarc . 
 this was a typic markup ; spi toy were still hard to find and sold most through dubious catalog , just as pornographi had been in earlier day . 
 they are a much harder audienc than a group of stranger , `` edward said . 
 it 's import to follow your instinct and stand your ground , she say , `` and that 's realli hard to do when you re on your own and you realli do n't have anyon to fight the fight with you . 
 medic expert said the water cutoff will make it harder for peopl to wash and cook food proper . 
 but in the human sens , it is hard to imagin that the most inept of the old manag could have done a wors job of manag chang than the execut of g.e. , capit citi and larri tisch did . 
 mayb make lot of movi with femal hero would chang it , but it 's so hard to figur out in what context a woman would be a hero . 
 the hardest part of sell the wide-rang plan will be to `` get peopl to think of this as a nine-year crusad '' instead of a quick-fix program , he said . 
 farewel to a local hero -- it 's hard to think of a bay area broadcast who put more back into his communiti than bob haulman , who die earli wednesday of a heart attack at age 49 . 
 but , then , all that data you have collect becom veri hard to work with. '' 
 `` look for a job is veri hard without english. '' 
 i like to write about what we the public perceiv about an issu as oppos to often hard-to-understand fact . 
 in fact , if one look close , daytim napper are not hard to find . 
 you marri , you want to have thing in common '' , a girl said , `` and it 's hard when you do n't marri someon with your own background '' . 
 `` the patriot feel is hard to describ . 
 and the part would be hard to trace on the world market , he ad : `` i ca n't think of ani individu , singl item that if they import that , watch em. '' 
 the state 's loom budget shortfal elimin ani chanc of a bailout from sacramento , leav educ leader with three hard choic : rais fee , cut faculti and staff , or close door to qualifi student . 
 just as u.s. execut are learn the valu of the european accent in the execut suit and the board room , they may find it harder -- but potenti more lucrat -- to woo them . 
 `` it 's hard to figur out if a guy is give you his all if he 's on a guarante as oppos to a commiss , `` hitchcock said . 
 but if fri ' appear may not seem all that youth to some , it would be hard to argu that the doctor doe not think in much younger term . 
 sever year ago , when almost all load fund charg 8.5 percent of the initi invest to get in , that statement was harder to justifi . 
 `` it is hard to come to this place tonight and not be abl to go into the clubhous and put on a uniform and throw backdoor slider and get peopl out . 
 catcher and third basemen are hard to get . 
 they were so light he had a hard time keep them on the plate . 
 ome area ; abort are becom increas hard to get in rural area and other part of the countri as physician shi away from the procedur becaus of harass , peer pressur and lack of train , an abortion-right group announc in chicago . 
 prank ( you re welcom ) -- it 's harder to fool the folk at sun technolog in mountain view after success year of april fool ' day joke , so prankster peter van der linden ( his new book , `` the second offici handbook of practic joke , `` just hit the store from signet ) struck earli this year . 
 we have a hard enough time get peopl just to fall to earth without ani gimmicks. '' 
 it would be hard to do a show on inner-c black poverti without portray and provok anger , and anger is one emot network tv can not use . 
 i 'm a hard match . 
 among the angri men is joann 's husband , matt ( peter coyot ) , who 's have a hard time make a live and has just had to sell off the last chunk of his inherit ranch properti to a famili name martinez . 
 it would have been veri hard to play dave henderson in center field tonight. '' 
 ( check ) beet -- it 's hard to justifi the troubl of cook fresh beet when can beet are so consist good . 
 also , gari 's video librari , with locat at 1328 w. el camino real , mountain view ( 415 ) 965-1050 and 1000 fremont ave. , los alto ( 415 ) 941-3171 , has success in locat and order hard-to-find videotap . 
 it 's hard not to get caught up in the plight of the girl and root for her . 
 nelson , of high tech gay , said , `` we in california will have to fight that much harder now . 
 that mean that it 's much harder for women to avoid be victim . 
 housebreak error seem harder to correct . 
 they say a shortag of child care center make it hard for mother to hold down career . 
 it 's just that it 's hard enough to find a barber you re comfort with back home , where the equip is a littl more modern , the polic are less impos , and it 's the citizen who carri the machin gun . 
 his brother , willi , who live in scotland , told him over the radio , `` hope your health is good , and i know it is hard but keep your spirit up as thing seem to be look a lot better for you. '' 
 it was hard to see the agreement to drop labor protect as anyth less than a disappoint for germani , franc , itali and other advoc of a federal-typ union of the 12-nation trade bloc . 
 but it would be hard to claim that kockelman 's academ and vocat path were not influenc by her famili background : her father , william , is an earth servic applic planner with the u.s. geolog survey in menlo park ; her older sister , anni , train guid dog for the blind ; her older brother , john and peter , oper a bunge cord jump busi ; and her younger brother , paul , is attend uc-santa cruz . 
 those who live through the depress often find it especi hard to discard belong , sinc they recal a time when old cloth or other tangibl were great need , winston say . 
 `` it 's hard to cut thing peopl want , `` councilman ron andersen said of the budget the council must adopt by juli 1 . 
 when forc upriv , where the water has less surfac , greater depth and a stronger current , the smelt have a harder time swim and find enough food . 
 `` bart is aw hard to deal with , `` campbel said . 
 is now harder to assum telepathi as a basi for the statements- though research still doe not know how far afield ~esp can rang . 
 `` it 's hard to defens home run , `` manag roger craig said . 
 mason said that omiss are harder to detect , but fund transfer and commingl should have been notic by the truste . 
 jazz ; shirley horn ; `` you wo n't forget me '' ; ( verve/polygram ; all format ) ; ( star ) ( star ) ( star ) ; it 's hard to believ , listen to this album and her previous work , that shirley horn remain larg unknown to the general public and even segment of the jazz communiti . 
 sambo chhun , whose two-year tour end last may , found it hard to see posit . 
 no suggest of anyth happen -- which is whi it 's hard to believ these alleg , which is whi it 's hard to disbeliev these allegations. '' 
 `` it 's easier to tell them they re go to the minor and harder to tell them they ve been releas , `` rosen said . 
 it is hard to build consist when player come and go that fast . 
 `` i learn more this way becaus now i know it was realli hard then , `` she said . 
 or if you will save just a few ; dollar on your month mortgag payment by refinanc , the refin cost are hard justifi . 
 `` it 's just hard be a particip , be involv with it and know the gut-wrench thing you re go through and three day of rain ( befor game 6 in 75 ) , to think that this is better. '' 
 it 's not that you ca n't call us anytim , but when we re busi put out a newspap , we can be hard to reach . 
 the program arriv set for washington , but it 's not hard to chang it to make where you are the center of the univers . 
 on one car : `` life is hard , then you die. '' 
 it will actual be harder to make field goal in colleg now becaus the hash mark are wider than in the pros , mean kicker will be forc to kick from sharper angl . 
 it 's mighti hard to make him work saturday , when all the boy is have holiday , but he hate work more than he hate anyth els , and i ve got to do some of my duti by him , or i ll be the ruinat of the child . 
 `` after 3 : 30 p.m. , it 's hard to find a seat in here , `` said ozubko . 
 while his method for rais bird have been copi , he has an advantag that will be veri hard to overcom : two decad of care breed that have produc veri special strain of bird . 
 this is hard to admit , but i realli could n't find a major fault here . 
 ( box ) splittin ' pea is so rich and creami it 's hard to believ it has no meat stock or dairi product and no fat -- technic , it has less than one gram , which qualifi as `` fat-free. '' 
 it 's harder to come up with a complet packag that solv some real problem -- and deliv the whole thing at onc . 
 i did n't , and it was twice as hard when i went back . 
 in the short span of one generat , we have convinc ourselv that rais children is hard . 
 and , it 's hard to realli dislik a club that has a model biplan pilot by gumbi and pokey . 
 he 's 36 for 43 in save situat this season , and eckersley find it hard to reconcil himself with the occasion failur . 
 japanes view american as a swagger mix of will ignor and wanton sloth saddl with a nostalg long for a bygon age , yet redeem by a raw and unhesit energi har to a certain basic good that 's hard to resist even when it drive us to excess . 
 but chuck gari , princip of milpita high , had a hard time understand the 3-2 vote . 
 it 's hard to pitch good when you re not pitch a lot . 
 seem ccm , the nhl 's jersey manufactur , has been have a hard time produc the pacif teal shade , and matt levin , the team 's execut vice presid in charg of busi oper , said jersey probabl wo n't becom avail for sale until late may . 
 it 's harder to publish a romanc novel now than a mysteri . 
 mexico 's clint anderson offer a resolut to chang the senat 's notori rule 22 to allow three-fifth of the senat present and vote to cut off debat , instead of the current hard-to-get two-third . 
 there are mani way of be hard to understand . 
 it is hard to feel sorri for brown and his boy , the democrat , or for the republican , either . 
 they have a hard time adjust to me. '' 
 `` with all the uncertainti , it 's hard to know where the cost of water is go to go , `` said ronald etheridg , senior facil manag for nation semiconductor corp. in santa clara . 
 becaus of all the homophobia , it is hard to be open and meet guy in an environ that is n't sexual charg or that surviv on the sell of liquor . 
 in fact , i have n't been 15 for so long that i sometim have a hard time recogn today 's 15-year-old as member of the same speci . 
 it also would make it harder for the iraqi to kill him , becaus they would have to explain later . 
 job are hard to find , etc . 
 do n't you feel kind of sorri for the poor work girl who , dog-tir after a hard night of patrol her dismal beat , has to go a half-mil out of her way to get home ? 
 `` one of the reason it was so hard to accept was that it had been done in the context of yoga . 
 you have so much money , and you have to make some hard choices. '' 
 one of my main concern about these sign is that it make it so hard for a first-class organ to make plan for the futur . 
 the may race may also come down to the question of how hard it would be to fill corazon aquino 's shoe . 
 `` it can happen to anybodi , and that is the hardest part to get into my head. '' 
 i learn the hard way , and i ll never make that mistak again . 
 this is a warmup exercis in which i stand straight with feet spread and lift my arm over my head as though i am stretch for the sky -- or pick fruit off the tree or prune the hard-to-reach branch or ani one of a number of other garden job . 
 `` and becaus quarterback are so hard to find , he may end up be the first player drafted. '' 
 at 1 : 30 in the afternoon , howev , there 's plenti of all three , as the unfortun actor of `` the tempest '' discov the hard way this week . 
 sometim it 's hard for them to discov relev in what they re studi , `` seymour said . 
 yet it 's hard to imagin that peopl are go to start pull away en mass from the stock market this fall , even with price near record height . 
 even the hard-to-pleas social observ and econom gadfli michael m. thoma is rave , say it is `` the greatest thing i have ever read about wall street. '' 
 but should a hard winter bring mob into the street , or an assassin or coup sudden remov either man , bush could have to order those b-52s back on 15-minut alert . 
 `` it 's harder now to take the kid to class with me becaus they re older and they need their own activ , `` she said . 
 if you still have a soft spot in your heart for stack 's old `` the untouch '' seri , this may be hard to resist . 
 `` this is so hard for me , `` sob his owner . 
 while gate ' respons might be believ , what 's harder to believ is that the precondit for such savageri will chang without an end to the secreci that surround how most peac offic ' depart deal with excess . 
 and now , sinc the giant ' quarterback is vanilla nice , a bland guy name jeff hostetl who a month ago was known as an averag backup perform , that make it doubli hard to choos them . 
 `` if the legislatur doe n't act on some of these propos , we could be back again this time next year with some veri , veri hard decis to make , `` santa clara counti supervisor rod diridon , an air district board member , said , refer to the gas tax , a higher bridg toll and other measur . 
 a cut abov , and just abov , the supermarket tabloid , and equal hard to resist . 
 have gone to war to enforc unit nation resolut against iraq , the unit state find it hard to avoid press to implement the u.n. resolut pertain to israel that it support . 
 `` it 's been veri hard to get peopl to listen , `` the soft-spoken professor of polit economi said in a recent interview . 
 today , it is hard for american to use the word `` glori '' without snicker . 
 odd that one man should be abl to block such a critic effort , but the negat alway seem to win when a posit is hard to prove . 
 `` for about seven of those 15 year i had a hard time let go of sonni and cher . 
 ( box ) make it harder for prison to make a second feder appeal of their convict . 
 hartford center john cullen know in his heart he 's worth the four-year , $ 4 million contract he sign with the whaler , but his mind find it hard to comprehend . 
 miss manner hope this will be a long time from now , as grandpar are harder to come by than desk . 
 `` but it 's hard to get rep away from steve young at this point . 
 pringl and natoli thought that the bad hemingway contest was too hard , so they made their someth anyon can enter . 
 when you ve grown up on the premis of a wal-mart without secur , it 's a hard habit to break . 
 but the offer to work at a well-establish museum was hard to pass up , `` he say . 
 today it appear to be harder to find , which tell us someth signific about how far we have come and about how far we have yet to go . 
 doe n't seem that hard , doe it ? 
 first , the loan are hard to find . 
 `` it 's hard to say in word how proud i am of you , `` schwarzkopf told about 1 , 700 member of the armi 's vii corp at a ceremoni befor they head back to fort hood , texa ; fort riley , kan . 
 it grew into a full-tim occup , and last hurrah , the bookstor that he and his wife own in williamsport , pa. , special in assassin book , which are often hard to find . 
 if you can answer that question - and it 's not a veri hard one - you will be abl to answer the question - 
 `` it 's hard to describ it becaus it was so nerve-rack , `` say kimber , `` but i 'm go to tri and tell my grandchildren . 
 but everyth is hard to achieve. '' 
 do n't call dougla coupland the voic of his generat -- although with everi newspap and televis interview , everi magazin stori , everi laudatori book review , it 's go to be a hard label to avoid . 
 when one is plan a coup , it 's hard to know what the reaction of the popul will be . 
 `` it 's hard , becaus they ask me to do stuff i ve never done. '' 
 it 's hard to measur a deterr . 
 that 's the hardest part of what we do -- tri to be funni and spontan and have a good time at nobodi els 's expens . 
 they are for preserv some semblanc of econom uniti among the territori of the soviet empir , and they say it is hard for them to believ that most of the republ will choos otherwis . 
 but i would tell them how hard this busi is and how import real talent is . 
 sinc mani homeown transfer within their region or state would be hit by the new 200-mile requir , larg employ say donnelli 's bill will make it much harder to persuad worker to accept reloc . 
 consum express more concern about unemploy , with 38.6 percent of those survey say job are hard to get , up from april 's 35.5 percent . 
 these thing are n't ani harder to do than instal low-flow shower head . 
 it 's hard to get convict for crime that are judg on motiv . 
 and support and foe of the judg , as well as support and foe of abort , all expect the suprem court to make it harder to get abort sometim in the next few year . 
 and then she was gone , `` play a self-involv businessman who learn , the hard way , how to care for other . 
 the situat is an excel exampl of durkheim 's anomi , social disorgan at all level - `` norm '' are hard or imposs to find and the psychologist can not , for long , hold mani preconcept . 
 `` it is hard to keep it hip and artsi and keep out the bad element at the same time , `` admit ken stock . 
 `` i 'm sorri that debbi did n't win , but in a sens it 's good i do n't have to play her becaus we re teammat and it 's hard to play a friend , `` birch said . 
 a lot of the student found it hard to concentr in class when they re hungri . 
 it 's like a lot of olymp sport you ve heard about -- more popular in europ than it is here , no way to get rich in it , harder to play than it look -- but it look like noth you ve ever seen . 
 `` i know how hard it is for a person to be gay becaus societi make it so difficult for them. '' 
 so mani thing were go on the night anita hill came out of ivori tower seclus last weekend , it was hard to sort them all out . 
 `` it was the hardest year of my life , `` killberg say . 
 `` here in the state , rock station do n't like music that 's black , and black station have a hard time with rock , `` hutchenc say . 
 `` if i had n't known , i would have thought the babi die within a coupl of month , `` linda said , `` but the mother call me close to the anniversari death of the babi , which is often a hard time. '' 
 but there are some problem : `` it was hard , go through puberti on tv , becaus i did n't have the greatest skin in the world , and what made it wors was i knew there would be 20 million televis viewer look for zit . 
 `` onc you start do it , it 's realli hard for you to go into a depart store and pay full price for thing , `` tomaso said . 
 `` we re have a hard time decid what our top project are go to be. '' 
 i even thought he might invit me to dinner on a sunni sunday , and help me plenti to the nice cabin fare , as know how distast the salt beef and pork , and hard biscuit of the forecastl must at first be to a boy like me , who had alway live ashor , and at home . 
 tough time ; the mercer survey reveal some step compani are take to deal with harder econom time . 
 hamper by a hard-to-explain shortag of elder tenant , the palomar inn , santa cruz 's largest earthquak recoveri project to date , is onli half full after five month of oper . 
 `` i believ pitcher have a right to pitch insid , but i have a hard time believ he doe n't have enough control that he ca n't pitch insid without hit somebodi in the head , `` said william , who consid himself lucki to escap with onli a headach . 
 even so , it is not hard to concoct a fatten meal . 
 `` it 's not hard to find volunt , `` she say . 
 they are a littl hard to use , howev , when the car 's transmiss is all the way forward in park . 
 like them , they were also glu to televis set , wonder about the clash of testimoni of two intens , proud american , and in the end find hill 's stori harder to believ . 
 `` it was frighten and depress becaus it was hard to tell from the one-sid news account what was realli go on. '' 
 but the hard question about effici and competit wo n't be answer until the hand is dealt and play . 
 it is hard to pass by anyon in need and not feel guilti . 
 perhap shift the genr to anoth era and refus to call it a soap will help , but , while `` homefront '' is sure to draw a broader audienc , it 's hard to see it draw a much bigger one than `` thirtysometh , `` whose overal nielsen number were never veri impress . 
 but onc a film get off the ground and the budget is reason , it 's hard not to make a profit , said law , becaus of `` the greater role europ is playing. '' 
 make canseco 's plea even harder to swallow is his penchant for strike out , in which case it doe n't matter where the fenc are . 
 `` these are all hard decis to make , `` said councilman angelo frosolon . 
 `` noth against salley , `` forward mark aguirr said , `` but if he get $ 3 million , it 's go to be hard for me to accept. '' 
 if a new station were built , citi offici say they would have a hard time fund the engin and truck compani to staff it . 
 to california 's 2.1 million welfar famili , the legislatur has this messag : your struggl to surviv just got harder . 
 walsh : it 's hard to differenti one from the other . 
 museum custom are negoti tougher deal , and loan for the unusu busi ventur are harder than ever to get , dinam presid and chief execut chris may said . 
 `` i like it becaus it 's hard , so it 's a challeng , `` said kevin , a third-grad who clinch first place by win five straight game at the march 9 competit . 
 the hardest ham to match with wine are the honey-bak ham . 
 it has been hard to separ fact and fiction on this staff . 
 mesa said , `` it was a veri hard play . 
 life is alway hard for the southern , who regular walk great distanc to find food for themselv and their livestock . 
 although some might find an earli onslaught hard to stomach , retail expert agre it has advantag for consum . 
 he declin to name ani such stock , but it is not hard to spot ralli among stock that had been given up for dead . 
 `` it 's veri hard for us when the ground shake , `` said vilma david , 32 . 
 `` it 's hard to live with right now , when you know that machin could save someon 's life. '' 
 now that i have children of my own , i find it hard to understand whi a mother would sacrific a daughter for a lowlif man like that , but i know it doe happen . 
 it was a big lesson , a hard lesson , but we need to learn it. ' -- anna petrovna fedorova , 68 , former communist parti member in moscow ; . 
 some hard choic had to be made , and gov. engler decid the money avail should go to famili and children as much as possible. '' 
 alber find that while valu often is appar , mani investor have a harder time identifi or believ in a long-term earn trend . 
 it 's just harder to have public health intervent to modifi those. '' 
 it look so routin , so familiar , even after five consecut loss , that a 's manag toni la russa muse , `` it did n't look like it was all that hard to do . 
 or , you can take a more cynic tack and argu that this is stone 's clever way of appeal to today 's youth audienc , which , if press , would have a hard time tell jim morrison from morri the cat . 
 of cours , those earli dude are a hard act to follow . 
 baker said atwat 's critic and even friend would find it hard to believ the `` self-profess bad boy '' was now with the angel . 
 `` fire in there are go to be particular hot , hard to put out , `` he said . 
 the new bill have two near invis featur that will make life much harder for forger . 
 director-writer-produc and co-star matti rich close with the remind `` first thing learn are the hardest to forget . 
 by the same token , it 's hard to imagin interest rate rise soon , with the global economi slow mark . 
 imparti in question ; the committe leader say they onli want to answer wrench nation question , yet it would be hard to devis a panel less imparti toward vietnam to direct the $ 1.9 million investig . 
 doe etiquett have a hard time get it act togeth in the morn ? 
 adult are harder to work with than children . 
 `` it 's realli hard to tell how good anybodi is right now , `` archbishop mitti coach marti procaccio said . 
 the attorney general order feder prosecutor to `` target the most violent offend in each communiti and put them away for hard time in feder prisons. '' 
 intellig , compos , unflapp , religi and attract , she testifi to her sexual harass by clarenc thoma and even to her own inadequaci , agre that it had taken her too long to come forward , that it was hard to understand whi she had kept in touch . 
 offic acknowledg that the fate of 20 to 25 other was harder to guess -- the one whose home were reduc to ash and rubbl , where the fire was so intens that it cremat it victim . 
 goal : `` mainten , which is the hardest part of all , now , becaus there are no more challeng -- like weigh-in and offic visit . 
 `` it 's hard to have a barbecu on crush gravel or play softbal in a cactus garden. '' 
 `` that 's hard for me to answer , `` moss said . 
 it 's hard to imagin wors hous in the unit state . 
 `` it would not be hard at all '' to counter ani iraqi threat , should one appear , said the sourc , who spoke on condit of anonym . 
 i want to show that it is not so hard . 
 `` it 's hard to critic gannett , `` said ben bagdikian , former dean of the univers of california , berkeley journal school . 
 and it is becom harder for consum to escap electron scrutini . 
 but face it : those gray squirrel are hard to resist . 
 the attorney who defend the counti knew that their difficult case had been made even harder by the anti-polic atmospher prevail here in the wake of the march 3 beat of king . 
 he 's go to be hard to live with now . 
 is hard for me to know how i feel about lauro di bosi . 
 `` the hardest part of our schedul is come up , `` said coach terri malley , who joke ad , `` i 'm tri to get my contract renegoti as soon as possible. '' 
 a rapid chang societi congreg will run into difficulti repeat , sinc such nice balanc of econom integr are hard to sustain in the metropoli for more than a singl generat . 
 still , it is hard not to imagin that some of debt collect 's appeal stem from the job 's obvious abil to intimid . 
 it is much harder to get data on the cost of treat hiv infect without aid , she said . 
 a it 's hard to say what exact your bathroom can accommod , sinc i do n't know it exact dimens . 
 print `` not veri hard at all. '' 
 big west confer softbal oppon might have a hard time believ that san jose state 's noleana woodard is play at 85 percent effici . 
 ( check ) it 's hard to know some thing becaus the peopl who are do them -- believ it or not -- actual tri to keep them secret . 
 eggbeat are hard to find , also retir unjust . 
 rais in an unpreced number of single-par or latchkey household , post-boom learn to take care of themselv and have a hard time trust other . 
 `` it 's been hard to look at mo the last year or so and realiz this is the same big , tall , energy-fil dynamo he realli was , `` said rep. john j. rhode iii , r-ariz . 
 `` i would ask them if it hard for them to be hispan there , with so veri few peopl of the same race. '' 
 it 's harder to refus someon money if you ca n't look straight ahead and keep on walk . 
 it 's hard to blame the state . 
 it 's hard to rememb so far back , but i 'm pretti sure that in the first grade i had never heard the word `` sex. '' 
 still , with one farm aim to market 100 , 000 pound of sturgeon each month , and other -- includ tini morgan hill aquafarm -- eye expans , it 's not hard to imagin a day in the far , far futur when sturgeon may actual be commonplac -- and as love as the pond-rais carp prais by czechoslovakian writer ota pavel . 
 on this basi alon , the choic of who is lie is not hard to make . 
 there are two dessert , but it would be hard to convinc me to order the crepe ( $ 1.95 for one up to $ 5.25 for three ) after have sampl the bread pud ( $ 2.45 ) . 
 it would have been hard to say just what the frys were cling to with such tenac , life in the auster hous seem so joyless , it barren so littl differ from that of that `` fine and privat place '' , the grave . 
 sort out enemi and friend from abov a swirl battlefield is one of the hardest task close-air-support pilot face , said capt. john mill , an a-10 pilot . 
 `` it 's hard for me to imagin what has changed. '' 
 as if tri to win a tripl crown and most valuabl player award were not hard enough , play with a sore knee down the stretch would make it virtual imposs . 
 but special effect do n't have to be especi hard . 
 `` it 's hard to rememb when the indian face such danger , `` eduardo franklin , a spokesman for the govern 's nation indian council , said in rio de janiero . 
 but today the gold is harder to get out , and low world price combin with higher cost of mine have thin the rank of prospector . 
 `` it was veri hard at time , becaus i had been refer to as a child wonder . 
 medea , in a tower rage about the marriag of her lover , jason , to a local princess , storm and steam around the stage , make dire nois , rend her garment and unperm her hair ( the hard way , by pull it out ) . 
 when he said slow danc , she ask , `` is n't that hard ? '' 
 `` it is fair to say that it is get harder to collect this kind of data , `` he say . 
 the guerrilla natur of the conflict made it hard for soldier to distinguish friend from foe . 
 diana bond , chairman of the los gato casa chapter , said present the communiti with specif inform make it hard to ignor or deni the problem . 
 it 's hard to measur in dollar the valu of a matur oak , mapl or other tree shelter your hous from the summer sun , but it 's definit an asset . 
 i ca n't see rank them ahead of kareem abdul-jabbar 's team , and it 's hard to rate them ahead of bill russel 's usf team . 
 the british travel associ , which doe excel work in take care of all foreign who want to have a good time here and studi what is pompous call `` the british way of life , '' have a hard time on their hand . 
 `` it 's hard to find mexican food in tokyo , `` sanchez told a villa montalvo audienc . 
 normal , you 'd have a hard time get a plane reserv to hawaii or a decent room in one of the popular resort . 
 and it 's definit hard to imagin the affabl stewart not talk , especi sinc , in an interview with the new york time , he had just finish critic the high salari given to what he term `` mediocr player '' in the major leagu . 
 `` it 's hard to tell what we re look for , `` said mari vernieu , a cast associ who ran a video camera . 
 and exercis , in particular , can probabl afford an occasion sin without jeopard their hard-won health benefit . 
 that is a donat hard to match . 
 this be so , it 's hard to believ that , accord to recent poll , mani of us freedom-lov american -- the most freedom-lov of all peopl in this world -- would actual opt for more militari censorship of the alreadi heavily-restrict gulf war news that come our way . 
 long-term exposur to this level of pollut may acceler a declin in lung capac , make it harder to breath fulli . 
 `` it 's hard to tell the landlord , 'i ll keep you in mind for the future. ' `` ; yet peopl caught up in the entrepreneuri spirit are often unrealist , he said , and push ahead with vagu assur such as , `` we ll have to get togeth ; i ll be refer peopl to you. '' 
 but roman utter everi line with the same fervor and forc , and it 's hard to tell whether she 's angri , ambiti , agreeabl , altruist or all of the abov . 
 fairi tale success ; `` the joy luck club '' was hard to ignor when it was publish in 1988 . 
 as good as their other cake are , and i ve had occas to sampl the chocolate-orange-walnut cake and the sherri walnut cake , the trifl here is hard to pass up . 
 the town has a varieti of rate base on flatland area and hard-to-serv area , but the most common servic is for two can per household , which will go from $ 10.30 to $ 11.72 per month . 
 the third element , and perhap the hardest , would be the softwar that could manag the comput . 
 eas of clean is also a consider , especi for peopl who have a two-stori hous or window that are hard to reach . 
 the club rais $ 10 , 000 last year , and that amount will be hard to attain and spread around to more than 14 chariti this year . 
 it 's a small step that make it harder for a crimin or a crazi to get hold of a dead weapon . 
 `` it 's hard to believ . 
 he has n't alway been success in this direct , though , and he has some stori to tell about his earli day in showbusi that are hard to believ , compar with his present-day success . 
 long said that it will be hard to know when his job is done , which is whi the island will be monitor for pig for two or three year . 
 well , it may be hard to disguis junk as health food . 
 the danger to the prison guard argument -- anoth vasquez reason cite by schnack in his decis -- is a littl harder to ignor , but not much . 
 it may be hard to do , but we are to do it . 
 moreov , polit strife , and the shortsighted of govern , is often at the root of problem , and govern are hard to control . 
 in fact , some of the nordiqu have a hard time hide the frustrat in their voic when they talk about lindro , the high tout no. 1 draft pick who refus to play in quebec and return to his junior team befor join the canadian olymp team recent . 
 it will be hard to stop at a singl pair . 
 david steinman has written a book about pesticid and chemic in food and it 's hard to keep from exclaim at the recept it has gotten . 
 what 's on their mind ; here are some of the find of a famili survey conduct by the nation commiss on children : ; ( box ) 88 percent of all adult think it 's harder be a parent today than it use to be . 
 `` in the u.s. it is veri hard to climb up the ladder step by step . 
 lagera want you vet to attend , but he said he 's have a hard time locat you . 
 nation secur advis brent scowcroft caution : `` it 's a lot harder to cooper in peac ventur than it is in prosecut a war. '' 
 `` they often have troubl refus to extend credit becaus it 's hard to take off the person hat and put on the busi one. '' 
 `` it 's hard to predict , but we could go into octob befor they re all gone , `` she said . 
 the hardest part of calcul the cost of fight a war is that it requir make adjust for the cost of not fight . 
 yet it is hard to believ the futur is go to be quit like the past , for saddam 's govern clear face challeng that were not there befor . 
 and it 's as hard to critic him as it would be for an art student to walk out of the louvr and complain that da vinci should have use brighter color or given the ladi a wider smile . 
 the timecap bottl seem bulki at first sight , but that might be an advantag : it 's harder to misplac than a small , slim contain . 
 and with all the fix pad the flavor of the mclean , it 's harder to tell you re not eat 100 percent beef . 
 she has fork over $ 8 million `` in cash '' for a bel-air shelter that will make it harder for news hawk to spi her out . 
 david ogden stier make a valiant effort to bring the town 's mayor to life , but often is hard to deciph becaus of an aggress southern accent and blusteri tone . 
 `` i think it was hard for the saint to concentr , `` tackl steve wallac said , happi the superdome-dwel could get a tast of their own medicin . 
 i ve help her quit a bit , but i 'm divorc and have a hard time support myself . 
 it is especi hard when the survivor has a spous or child involv . 
 `` it 's hard to get doctor to say definit that carri school book can caus these problem , but they ll say it 's like , `` crowley said . 
 whether mainstream , new age , goddess-ori ( a point of view express a female- and earth-cent style of worship rather than a specif bodi of liturgi ) or wiccan ( a main british isl pagan name from the old english word for witch ) , today 's celebr are as vari as they are hard to count . 
 sometim it 's hard to choos . 
 not onli is land hard to find , but also wild game popul are declin becaus of loss of habitat , `` said tom ebert , a partner in a construct compani , who want to build the sport clay rang . 
 geraldo rivera hit a new low last week , but it 's hard to say what was most appal about it . 
 it is hard for me to figur out the point of go on , if saddam hussein is actual will to pull out of kuwait without a land war . 
 we tri to keep in touch with our children , but it is hard . 
 -- crush in california ; dear calif. -- you have everi right to feel betray and angri , but do n't let foolish pride catapult you into a decis that will be `` pain , expens and hard on the kids. '' 
 jonsen forese thousand of sick patient come to the state to seek aid in die , and a backlash from conserv state that will make it harder to end a life . 
 much of the materi is hard to come by and is n't avail in some british librari , `` pocock said . 
 correct depart spokesman tip kindel said the drug -- which are use to control bizarr behavior -- inhibit the bodi 's abil to perspir , make it harder for the bodi 's cool mechan to work . 
 young adult in the survey , age 18 to 29 , report have a particular hard time . 
 john devitt say he learn the hard way that some larg corpor will do anyth for a buck . 
 `` but i came back and that 's hard , `` she add . 
 with a wingspan no bigger than your palm and a shrill , drawn-out call often compar to the plaintiv mew of a kitten , the gnatcatch is a bird hard to dislik . 
 it sound and look hard to do but it realli is n't , and the success rate is veri high . 
 `` we had a rapid buildup in teacher ' salari becaus teacher were hard to get and becaus that was the polit will , `` said stanford 's kirst . 
 with peopl will to pay $ 200 a week to sleep on a cot in a closet , it 's hard to resist the temptat to put a partit down the middl of a garag , cut two littl door in the garag door , move children into the master bedroom with you , put a famili of lettuc worker in each garag cubicl , a coupl under a tarp by the shed out back , eight men in bunk in each newli vacant room , and one or two camper in the driveway or on the sidewalk and lawn out front . 
 `` if you do n't laugh at some of it , it 's go to be that much harder for you , `` maintain the newark author , whose book `` the sudden singl mother 's surviv book '' has just been publish by mill & sanderson , bedford , mass . 
 unfortun , the display is hard to read , the batteri do n't last long enough , the processor is about to be obsolet ( new machin introduc last month have faster processor or processor that extend batteri life ) , and the whole thing weigh too much . 
 `` it 's hard to tell ani actor , `` say landi . 
 in such circumst it would find it hard , and perhap , inde , imposs , to absorb within a reason time all the young peopl who had thus been thrown , at one swoop , so to speak , on to the labour market . 
 then she end her letter with a kind plea for understand on both side : `` i know how hard it is for the peopl who make the lunch , but just think of what we have to go through . . . `` she wrote . 
 `` it 's hard to believ the pendulum can swing even wider for box , `` kevin monaghan , nbc 's box coordin , said tuesday , `` but appar it can when you have a bizarr , homophob press confer conduct by mike tyson. '' 
 as a high school freshman in fallbrook , then a rural farm town north of san diego , trimbl decid he would attend the california institut of technolog becaus `` i thought it was the hardest school in the countri to get into. '' 
 degener , meanwhil , prove harder to peg . 
 but after the summer harvest they brought from the countrysid run out , it will be harder . 
 worst fashion disast award , present : although it would be hard to singl out one coutur calam in the crowd that includ hundr of women sport rhinestone-and-spandex number that would make a tenderloin hooker blush , hay win this categori too -- for a black spangl baby-dol outfit offset with a crucifix big enough to pound nail . 
 but it 's hard to say , `` said fred herman , palo alto 's chief build offici . 
 some day it 's hard to stay cool while listen to angri complaint . 
 ifyou re interest ; smith ask peopl who want to sign to send at least 10 signatur ( it 's hard to append just one ) to : devon smith , r.d. 2 , robot lane , wampum , pa. 16157 . 
 u.s. busi are find credit harder to get and more cost as banker continu to tighten their lend standard . 
 but that 's hard to believ when they tell you how she hound her husband . 
 after complaint from some toronto player that he had been hard to get along with , bell so far has fit in well in the cub ' clubhous . 
 `` it 's hard to see where the upturn is , `` said stephen balog , associ director of research at shearson lehman brother inc . 
 `` my mother use to give me a realli hard time about freddi , `` she say . 
 left guard guy mcintyr thought pari ' lengthi condit hiatus made it hard for him to catch up to his teammat . 
 to do that , they need to find out what 's happen now -- and that 's the hard part . e 
 `` this ( elbow ) injuri has been easier to take in some way than the back problem , but harder in other way , `` montana said last week in one of his final pre-surgeri interview . 
 `` i ve had to take a compromis and accept it , `` he said , `` but sometim it 's hard to take. '' 
 made with four egg each , the omelet are so huge and hard to finish . 
 the seat are firm and comfort , if slight hard to adjust . 
 becaus of the recent runup in stock price , good valu have becom much harder to find . 
 stick to this vow turn out to be harder than he thought . 
 help is hard to come by in the organ . 
 `` in everi crisi , civil liberti are chip away at and lost , and they re veri hard to get back , `` said rep. don edward , d-san jose . 
 govern produc paperwork like mcdonald cook hamburg -- both in number hard to comprehend . 
 `` unless they show me someth legal say i have to leav , i 'm go to give them a veri hard time , `` said chris miller of durham . 
 metz has so mani build full of rooster , he has a hard time keep track . 
 if there was a game saturday , it 's hard to say whether he could play or not . 
 elimin small patch of grass in place where it 's hard to mow . 
 smith said he was have a hard time earn respect as a young , off-campus coach who care about his player ' potenti as soccer player and as student . 
 the work of grown-up , make hard choic on issu such as educ , health care and econom growth , is be left undon . 
 a dead bodi is n't particular hard to face , certain not after you ve seen 15 , 000 of them . 
 here 's a qbasic program that ask and answer that question : print `` so how hard is it ? '' 
 `` it 's veri uncommon becaus case tend to be hard to value. '' 
 to just cut it off is kind of hard . 
 the aftermath of a devast fire is both the easiest and the hardest time to impos them . 
 la villa ; it 's hard to believ that dave and patti bertucelli have cram even more food into this small but arguabl best italian deli south of north beach . 
 although the palo alto medic foundat alreadi won citi council approv for it plan expans project , it is learn the hard way that the situat is anyth but settl . 
 it 's hard enough for some one like penni -- for all of us now direct -- to get where we ve gotten without that men s-club mental . 
 although x-ray is heavili research in japan , it is veri difficult to use to draw line on a chip becaus the x-ray particl are hard to control . 
 `` phone line are hard to get , and fax , which go through phone line , do n't alway work . 
 the imag from that tragic game are hard to shake : ; hank gather had just slam-dunk , give 22nd-rank loyola marymount a 25-13 lead over portland in a west coast confer tournament semifin game that never was complet . 
 fortun , the wheel bear are slow and it is hard to get go too fast , even on a slight downhil . 
 the cursor is often hard to find on small , dim lap-top screen . 
 the earli essay , although they reveal sympathi and goodwil , too often seem either to strain after polit correct or to laps into coy : `` but boyhood is hard to leav , and perhap one never doe , and while i tri to becom a man of the time , i ask you , o ladi , for neither absolut nor understand . 
 by 7 : 30 , we were readi to leav , just as the street were get so crowd it was hard to walk without bump into someon . 
 presid bush has until june 3 to make what he has call a hard decis on whether to renew low tariff rate for chines good . 
 her view is that lee is `` veri insecur about women and he 's probabl not veri comfort with white peopl , so that make it doubli hard for a white woman. '' 
 it 's hard to explain this war to a kid . 
 q what caus hard cold start in the morn ? 
 but when the critic come from a member of the kennedi clan , it 's harder to dismiss . 
 the detail are harder still to see . 
 of cours , this kind of behavior give hockey a bad name , but it 's hard to argu with success . 
 the self-publish book is as much a primer of hard-to-find santa cruz mountain histori as it is a stori about a transport landmark . 
 it is veri hard under our present system for peopl in small unit of local govern to get re-elect if they take the region interest into serious account . 
 from the desert storm button to the cloth eagl patch , john jarrett , head of the firm , said they ve have had a hard time keep anyth in stock . 
 `` anyon who has seen my film would have a hard time attack me as a person who doe n't enjoy god 's green earth. '' 
 so whi is it so hard to get your own money out of the plan ? 
 `` it 's hard to tell in the crystal ball who will get the most mileag out of this polit , `` weir said of seymour 's announc . 
 it may be hard to judg which are the most destruct in the long run . 
 `` i do n't realli mind sit around for a coupl of day , but if it rain until thursday it 's go to be pretti hard to handle. '' 
 that 's what made the struggl so much harder. '' 
 `` i have no doubt that meet the fiscal challeng of the current budget year will be harder than last year 's assign . 
 allemann is a hard fit , but she look like a fashion statement here in her red dress and rakish pancak hat . 
 `` it 's hard for you to be lead and do wrong . 
 and becaus so mani peopl are unemploy and stay home . . . it 's harder for them to conserve. '' 
 it is hard to make an impress with mere a week of exhibit game remain , but darnel cole seem determin to do so monday afternoon . 
 the unit state learn -- the hard way -- the danger of cozi up to dictat when iraqi presid saddam hussein invad kuwait last august and flout nine year of allianc with the west . 
 the problem was not in the food but in our select , i think : a fire-pot demand attent and is hard to see , or reach , around . 
 with trader trade for so mani differ object , and what with there be so mani uniqu and individu market theori and trade techniqu in use , and more come into use all the time , it is hard to imagin how ani particular theori or techniqu could acquir enough `` fan '' to invalid itself . 
 golfer ' vacat ; for folk who love to play golf on vacat , it 's hard to think of a better place to tee it up than on bermuda . 
 the santa clara unifi school district board tuesday approv a plan to stave off hard econom time and to handl an enrol boom of up to 8 , 000 student over the next decad by sell off or leas out some school site while reopen other that have long been close . 
 how much of this could have been handl more quiet on the ground is hard to say . 
 devincenzi figur the sum should n't be too hard to rais , given the pride level of italian-american here after last week 's seri of florentine-flavor festiv , top by that black-ti opera concert friday night at the st. joseph cathedr and the bash follow at fairmont plaza . 
 somehow it seem hard to pictur san jose 's men in teal get this aggress . 
 women who are rape by a man they know have a much harder time recov from the trauma than women rape by stranger , research is show . 
 `` whether this is a plateau , or just a temporari stop along the waysid , is hard to say , `` said dr. roy campbel , a lyme diseas specialist with the cdc . 
 so hard that when tambrand inc. advertis in the armi time , the navi time and the air forc time offer to send tampax direct to women soldier in the gulf , the compani receiv `` a coupl thousand request , `` said bruce garren , spokesman for the lake success , n.y. , compani . 
 now , the unit state postal inspect servic has produc a new money order that will make it harder to counterfeit money order with color copier or to alter the dollar amount on legitim one . 
 what 's even harder to believ is that a person as familiar with the consequ of addict as i could have fallen in love with him . 
 `` it contain and magnifi an explos , and it make it harder for the crew to escap . 
 whether it is just an aberr year -- an oop kind of misfir -- or a sign that serious problem lie ahead is hard to know for sure . 
 the owner say some of the incid were petti , but it 's hard to argu with the number . 
 it 's kind of hard when you ca n't afford to buy even shoe to wear when you walk to church . 
 but it 's hard to imagin even the most suggest youngster buy into this film 's phoni emot and hackney holiday spirit . 
 `` when state money is n't avail , it 's hard for the board to digest the idea of the newark annex , `` mciver said . 
 work is veri much akin to schnabel 's , but the sound on his decca disc is date , and you will have a hard time locat a copi of it . 
 `` it 's ideal for go after leav , but in addit it can pick up pine needl , hedg clip and it can get under bush where it 's hard to rake , `` say tom vasi , manag of product merchandis for echo . 
 veteran get their ident the hard way . 
 `` i have a hard time rememb that match , `` agassi said . 
 `` we were not so much concern that she would succeed as that the attempt would be so messi that . . . it would be hard for ani kind of moder center to keep power , `` a high-level u.s. intellig offici in manila in those year told me . 
 and after listen to the rest of the record , i find it hard to disagre . 
 they re also pay higher rate becaus bank have a harder time collect unpaid balanc and suffer greater loss on credit card than on secur loan . 
 industri develop leader find it hard to win local support for train unless a new industri is in sight and request it . 
 `` it was hard to be out there by myself. '' 
 `` to be honest with you , it 's hard to imagin . 
 `` it 's hard becaus you set a standard for yourself . 
 it has been a long hard struggl to make this the norm , and for parent and godpar to realiz it is such an import event , and that veri particular prepar is need . 
 `` the hardest part , i find , is mental , not physic . 
 depart director john christian told the council it is hard to find adequ locat for dog park : most site are either next to school , which school offici do not like , or they are too small , or the citi would have to give up other recreat facil to make way for dog . 
 `` be in the auction busi it 's hard to have a retail store , `` mccoy said . 
 tale circul about test audienc find suicid too hard to take and that the end had been chang . 
 it was much harder to find someon who would understand a thoma as well. '' 
 but it was hard to watch as mover recent empti the old home of it mani antiqu , includ the 25 floor-to-ceil clock albert has refurbish over the year . 
 it 's hard to watch . 
 it is a serious pest and sometim hard to kill . 
 for tire parent , deal with sleep problem can be harder than deal with infecti diseas . 
 it 's hard to deal with this becaus our system emphas small entrepreneuri busi . 
 from here , it look as if the negoti will be hard and veri , veri expens . 
 mayb the best thing that can be said about `` the 10 million dollar getaway '' is that it show how hard it is to make crime pay . 
 `` some of these athlet would have a hard time read a cereal box , `` duncan said in a document brought to light in today 's edit of the washington post . 
 `` i could studi at home , but the atmospher . . . it 's harder. '' 
 howev , payn said the compani had a hard time sell it product of `` our town , `` which was schedul to close this past friday . 
 and if ani u.s. newspap rail at their inhuman for do so , it is extraordinarili hard to find ani record of it . 
 in a move that could threaten the plan 400-mile bay area ridg trail , santa clara counti is consid make it harder for govern to take privat land for public hike , bike and ride trail . 
 `` it 's hard to explain what 's a rhino titl . 
 q in close turn , the power steer in my 1985 chrysler is hard to turn and feel bounci . 
 ask whether the endang speci act requir that the chinook salmon be spare that pain , even at the expens of other user , paff said , `` it make the balanc act harder , that 's for sure. '' 
 and the big studio are veri hard to deal with . 
 hard to believ ; `` i want to believ that the futur will be better than the present , but it 's veri hard to believ , `` said karina gebauer , a slender 18-year-old latvian studi fashion design . 
 we find it hard to duplic the feel of love that encompass us when the odor of french fri float through the air . 
 he is find out it 's hard to find an afford place to live . 
 i realiz it 's a hard road ahead , especi as a homeless , penniless , jobless person . 
 the redgrav sister recent star in a remak , but it 's aw hard to beat the origin . 
 the compani said that it was too hard to get coal out of the seam and that a downturn in the market had made the oper unprofit . 
 `` it 's hard to feel ani compass , `` nelson said . 
 that 's whi it 's hard to say who 's the best at lead off . 
 it 's hard to take the offens to task , becaus it has carri the a 's . 
 if we want a better nation life , we have to be will to look at the whole tedious pictur , ask the hard question , and give up the luxuri of depend on a surrog parent to make our decis for us . 
 `` it 's hard to distinguish between vinyl and good cover , but there are compani that deal with archiv materi , `` bauer said . 
 the former `` it 's a live '' star explain that , prior to product of the film in which she play de niro 's mistress , `` everybodi was tri to tell me what the real ' robert de niro was like -- do n't stand too close to him . . . he 's hard to get along with . ' 
 it ll be hard for him to ever forget one sequenc in the latter . 
 peopl just do n't want to give up someth they have such fond memori of , when so mani thing are so hard nowadays. '' 
 with salsa , afro-pop and brazilian music so popular , ethnic instrument are n't hard to find . 
 it 's not hard if you develop mix use at reason densiti . 
 it 's hard to predict how the crowd will react to new oiler like vincent damphouss , scott mellanbi , peter ing and troy mallett in the home open -- edmonton was wax , 9-2 , by archriv calgari on friday . 
 `` my first instinct was , oh , no , you ca n't do this , ' but onc you start make a movi about these issu , it 's hard to think of just do a movi , `` he say . 
 it is hard to defin helprin 's elus power , which was also evid -- along with his uneven -- in `` winter 's tale , `` a novel of new york as grand histor myth . 
 the project was the idea of student leader sara charukesn and christin esperanza , two best friend who finish each other 's sentenc so quick that it hard to be sure which one said what . 
 the pancak grew stiff and heavi in his mouth and was hard to swallow . 
 `` it 's hard to talk about , `` he said . 
 elder rural american find money is especi tight and that health care is more expens and harder to get than in the citi , an agricultur depart studi say . 
 i start warm up : while other busi recogn how hard it is for mani peopl to patron them dure the day , the post offic has no offic in san jose open after 5 : 30 p.m . 
 `` it 's a complic trend , and one that 's hard to general about across industri , `` said blake down , a palo alto consult and ventur capitalist . 
 nowher doe it seem harder for the fat polic than at the high school level . 
 he too , howev , believ the republ may find it hard to jettison their soviet tie . 
 it may be equal hard for the art council of santa clara counti to round up creativ type for it artist registri , describ as a `` key resourc to facilit communic with and about the art communiti here. '' 
 `` it 's hard for me to accept. '' 
 `` it 's realli hard to say . 
 autograph are hard to come by , but a face or two might be familiar . 
 `` jill and i were talk about how hard it is to break into the san francisco club . . . even though we draw in san jose , `` said alison . 
 save the parent seem like a much harder task . 
 howev , longtim parti chairman gus hall was a hard man to reach by telephon this week . 
 it 's often harder to cope with the stress of be unemploy than it is to make end meet , especi if your is a two-incom household . 
 the board has to be abl to ask hard question , and ask for inform in a certain way , so it understand it. '' 
 it is best to let it wear off after you have kill the aphid becaus it is hard to get off . 
 a what i worri about is when economi are not robust , it is harder to get market open . 
 two german librari with extens collect on the islam world confirm the book 's exist but said it was hard to obtain . 
 good english , howev , is harder to preserv than good architectur . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that our communiti has becom like new york and los angel . 
 even now , it 's hard for me to think about the event dure the earli year of my marriag , which veer from intens happi to deep sad . 
 `` it was kind of hard talk to someon about this , `` said katherin , refer to her interview with krementz . 
 it 's hard to tell from scatter scene . 
 `` most of the peopl in my depart do differ job , and that make it hard for me to do apprais interview , `` a depart head complain . 
 it 's hard to overrid righteous to go surf . 
 `` the administr is duck the hard decis on energi and the environ . 
 ( answer : `` the show has been great for me , but it 's hard to have ani real feel for him becaus he doe n't expos much . 
 ( check ) altern : unfortun , lauan is the cheapest plywood , and it 's hard to find an altern compar in price . 
 `` my parent , both of them , did not even finish high school so it has been hard for me to even think about go to colleg , `` said junior patricia rodriguez . 
 `` if we focus and execut against anybodi , we ll be hard to stop , `` said sjs insid lineback chris clark , who had a team-high nine tackl , a quarterback sack and fumbl recoveri . 
 it 's hard to accept the fact that one out of everi four of our children will be abus by the time they are 18 year old . 
 when told that such said erickson was too laid back in his world seri start , after be too hyper in the playoff , erickson said , `` i guess it 's too hard to make everybodi happi . 
 which fate await emf is hard to say after onli one hour . 
 to hebert , it 's not hard to add all of this up . 
 time appar are so hard that even lotto fever has cool down to a cold sweat . 
 tame and bark are characterist of juvenil anim , and today 's dog is a canin genet stuck in adolesc , a youngster that find it hard to keep it mouth shut . 
 the hardest thing about comedi , he say , is that you have no idea if it 's go to work until you see it on stage . 
 it is hard for them to be open-mind about bloodsh . 
 `` but probabl one of the hardest thing is find bean thing kid like. '' 
 q : regard the sewag treatment plant problem , discharg fresh water into the bay : in the past , san jose 's resist to compli with environment law seem to have made a settlement with the water qualiti control board hard to reach . 
 it 's hard to argu with his coach techniqu , especi after becom the toast of the nba for the job he did saturday in san antonio , texa . 
 it was hard , becaus they ( polic offic ) would rather have gone to shoot it out in a bank robberi than go to a communiti meet . 
 this has been their sinc the nixon year when they discov that if you arous racial emot , never hard to do in america , it was better to have the white vote than the black vote , if all you want was to win . 
 `` ani check go out is a hard one to write , `` said kitayama , `` but it 's for a caus that is go to help the industri in the long run. '' 
 rule were few ; the hardest part of the whole experi was choos which car to drive next . 
 it would be hard to make that argument if busi was propos the tax increas . 
 among human speaker `` last die '' is a natur way to express patho , though a tautolog ; but a mean which would make it a correct descript of the career of the son is hard to invent . 
 gentl reader -- it is hard to imagin whi anyon negoti a rise to the top would consid it possibl to skip master the veri simpl requir necessari to get food direct into the mouth . 
 veri hard to find a few nice acr in florida . 
 it 's harder to look for a new job . 
 anderson said the council did n't make the need hard decis . 
 and date is hard sometim ; i do n't alway know if the man is interest in me . 
 certain , it is veri hard for most american to be patriot when there is no agreed-upon countri to cherish , onli war tribe and , over all , a nation secur state to keep the lid on -- $ 300 billion a year for law and order . 
 i mean , how hard was it go to be to sit there and watch robert redford ride around on horseback ? 
 `` his book are easi to read and hard to swallow. '' 
 most peopl would agre that immanuel kant was a great thinker and also that he was hard to understand . 
 show courtesi ; when he was on patrol , finton said some non-smok offic would simpli throw out the ashtray in polic car , make it harder for smoker who use the vehicl . 
 `` it 's the hardest individu sport that there is . 
 it 's hard to talk about yourself . 
 i suspect as the newest wave of immigr becom second and third generat american , their need and vote instinct will be as divers as those of ani other american , and it may be increas hard to identifi them as a vote bloc . 
 yet in a coupl of week , danforth will lead the charg against the bush white hous to pass the 1991 civil right act , a bill seek to revers recent suprem court decis that make it harder for women and minor to prove job discrimin , especi claim base on statist under-represent in the workplac . 
 youth in alameda and santa clara counti agre that find a summer job this year is harder than ever . 
 it 's just an averag day at the children 's discoveri museum of san jose , everi child 's answer to heaven -- perhap the onli place in town where it 's hard to tell the big kid from the littl kid . 
 it 's hard to delv into the mind of a rooster. '' 
 `` it 's hard to believ peopl are talk about the ( remot ) chanc of this club , when i saw what i saw today. '' 
 the nation labor relat board announc a decis friday that could make it harder for compani to reloc factori to low-wag area . 
 doorknob becom slipperi and hard to twist . 
 `` it 's go to be veri hard for my client to buy one , `` he said . 
 and though the flavor is n't as pronounc as jarlsberg , it 's hard to quibbl when you have such impress nutrit number . 
 dreyfuss as sam is hard to take . 
 a divorc would be pain , expens and hard on the kid . 
 `` it 's becom hard to generat new blood , `` cibilich said . 
 which make her withdraw and grief that much harder to take . 
 in no time at all their veri revolutionari qualiti are copi , and appear quit dismal hackney : what was onc fresh and surpris becom tricksi and affect , and by now , in the case of the new wave , the movement is so barnacl with it own clich that it is hard to rememb the high - inordin high - hope it began with . 
 anyway , my concern , after this balch spring incid , is that more crimin will start pack turtl , which are quieter than gun and harder to pick up with metal detector . 
 it 's also hard for the assessor to keep track of sale . 
 `` they are lay some contract out but it 's realli hard to find the decision-makers. '' 
 first , clow said she had a hard time get the word out to parent of disabl children . 
 this may be hard for the manag to do , but that 's the kind of thing manag get paid for . 
 as student sign yearbook and wrote phone number on the back of their hand , branham junior lori dickerson said she expect watch graduat to be particular hard `` becaus we ll see what we should have been doing. '' 
 the hardest part for brown probabl has been the off-the-field demand . 
 it 's not surpris to me that it 's often hard to get top peopl interest in public servic . 
 it 's veri hard to imagin do the thing we do without languag . 
 `` we learn the hard way that you ca n't celebr until the final whistl , `` he said . 
 she also complain that the club had a hard time keep peopl on it board of director . 
 the matur was the hard part ; the flop just seem to come natur . 
 `` the hardest thing in the world to do is to say , 'i 'm good , i 'm capabl . ' 
 high school attend is harder to keep up than elementari and middl school attend . 
 as marsali ' versatil son wynton onc observ , it 's veri hard to flip-flop between jazz and classic in the same even . 
 it 's hard to focus . 
 deal with the loss is hard enough . 
 it 's hard to say it 's an accid , but it pretti much was -- there was no real fighting. '' 
 some said that , even if abort remain legal , it may becom harder to obtain . 
 he now explain , `` sinc then , if an actor doe someth that 's hard to pull off , or is unusu in some way , we ll singl the person out. '' 
 shannon kelley told her mother , martha kelley , owner of almaden valley videotap and a member of almaden kiwani club , about how hard it is for blind peopl to use a machin design for peopl who can see . 
 now this i find a littl hard to believ . 
 and it 's hard to envis jackson humbl throw bat practic for the next six month without creat some sort of a ruckus . 
 `` she did n't like the idea of be tie to them but she was have a veri hard time tri to cut back becaus she was in constant pain . 
 local exhibitor alreadi have a hard time project a sharp pictur with crisp sound . 
 it 's alway hard to leav a job one enjoy so much . 
 natur his intent in put so much weight on it has been found especi hard to grasp . 
 and hard to deni . 
 `` we have 15 player and it 's hard to get all of them in . 
 it is alway hard to predict the futur , and yet polici get made anyway . 
 the support of media and fan is harder to come by . 
 and he said the team 's 13-game lose streak has been hard on everyon . 
 in the bay area , perform art is tradit associ with the extravag present of georg coat and paul dresher , whose multimedia work is otherwis hard to `` type. '' 
 it 's hard to convey in word . 
 and when your hormon are go , it 's hard to think. '' 
 gerald power , associ professor at boston univers 's colleg of communic , say `` public relat can be hard to defin . 
 still , the trend toward shorter vacat was spark earlier by the explos of two-work household , which make it much harder to dovetail schedul , and it has grown as tour oper have increas target this grow market nich . 
 `` it 's possibl that so few compani had a hard time compli with the law becaus mani had alreadi develop polici and practic that were not far out of sync with what these parent-leav law requir , `` the studi said . 
 the narrow man , the man who know littl outsid his own field of scienc and noth at all outsid scienc itself , is virtual useless in industri - not just becaus he find it hard to communic with or manag other peopl -lrb- which is import enough -rrb- but also becaus he is a bad technologist . 
 `` part of this law also has to do with make it harder for kid to buy cigarett in the first place , `` she said . 
 whi should it be so hard to know what you re eat ? 
 they say he later er in the other direct by agre to almost all the term set by civic group that had oppos his origin plan , even if the revis lead to a scaled-down plan that is hard to make profit . 
 the latest generat of eda softwar replac older generat that were much harder to use and took longer to design product -- and mani of the program were fashion by the chip compani themselv . 
 `` it is hard to leav this campus , `` fullerton said . 
 our second afternoon , as we drag into merc lake after an 8.4-mile downhil hike that we had all thought would be a snap , one of my well-travel companion gasp , `` i ve decid this is harder than nepal . 
 the deficit is whi , the politician say , there is not enough money to help the citi , not enough money to provid health care to 33 million uninsur american , not enough money to help eastern europ and the soviet republ through their hard transit to democraci and therebi build a better world . 
 i have a hard time with the peopl who say , 'i hate polit , i do n't even want to talk about it. ' . 
 the requir inform is includ , but i think the type style and format are especi hard to read . 
 anoth issu : editor tina brown know how hard it is to follow a hit like the august vaniti fair cover show a nude and pregnant demi moor , but brown has a second biggi come in septemb 's mega-edit of the popular mag . 
 it is hard to estim how much loss to the revenu the changeov , keep the same rate , would involv , but a figur of *+30 m has been quot . 
 `` it 's hard to give a quick report card on the governor 's action on solv the budget becaus the crisi is just so enorm , `` said senat presid pro tempor david roberti , d-los angeles. `` . 
 `` he is go to bring about a differ attitud among the black peopl in san jose , and that 's hard to do becaus black folk in this town are not veri togeth . 
 `` marijuana sale are pretti hard to come by around here , so a pound of good qualiti marijuana like sinsemilla sell quit high , `` said detect mark kostic of the southern alameda counti narcot enforc team which assist the dea in confisc the plant . 
 `` that 's one of the hardest thing . 
 his wife , whom i had a hard time distinguish from the flower chintz sofa , was obvious suffer from a sever laura ashley overdos . 
 those folk at the societi for the preserv of english languag and literatur , it 's hard to run verbal goof and malaprop past em . 
 mercuri news nation and foreign editor paul van slambrouck , onc a correspond for the christian scienc monitor in south africa , understand that inform is sometim hardest to come by when event play out beneath a chador of secreci . 
 `` becaus of the tremend scope of the atroc , it 's hard to forget , `` said kent khauv , a san jose cambodian who work as a clinic clerk for the santa clara counti health depart . 
 some peopl do abus the system , but for most peopl on welfar , it 's a long and hard struggl to get through the month . 
 `` the set are longer and a lot harder , `` kraemer said in a fatigu voic . 
 ferreira was conscious but `` look like he was have a hard time with the pain. '' 
 `` but we are face the typic summer slowdown , and it is hard to say what will happen. '' 
 'i go to intern gymnast camp to look , but a second korbut is veri hard to find. ' -- gymnast coach and former olymp champ olga korbut . 
 `` it is veri hard to fathom a colleagu who would do thing like that , `` said brad phillipson , fire marshal in san marino . 
 it 's hard to stay quick . 
 other analyst worri that the fed 's recent stimulus may be tantamount to `` push on a string '' whose front end is veri hard to move with pressur from behind . 
 these forc were numer enough , and even now after sixti year it is hard to find anyon whose sympathi can be enlist for them against those who emerg with the battl honour and the consequ good press . 
 jame georg , a former canadian ambassador to kuwait and an environment scientist who led a friend of the earth inspect team to kuwait in june , told the subcommitte that now these lake are catch fire , caus more pollut than a well fire , and will be harder to extinguish . 
 as berman conced , he had to learn that the hard way as far as the home-run call . 
 it 's hard to see a brighter pictur for children for year to come . 
 stick to what you re do ' ; but , she say , `` it 's a realli , realli hard time in radio right now for peopl who are n't danc artist and whose music doe n't have the certain groov that happen to be popular now , `` she say . 
 `` you ought to make the 18th the hardest hole on the golf course. '' 
 this is hard enough to achiev in drama but xception tricki in comedi , which depend on the intang element of time for much of it effect . 
 `` i know that my hardest work come befor and after game . 
 `` sometim it 's hard to explain what 's go on even when you both speak the same languag , `` nguyen said . 
 `` it 's a hard one to give up , `` parde said . 
 earth day 1990 is a hard act to follow . 
 `` it was kind of hard to do what they want me to do , `` said susan , an eighth-grad at hopkin junior high . 
 hard to wake up '' , she falter . 
 is hard , on the other hand , to blame the policeman , blank , good-natur , thoughtless , and insuper innoc , for be such a perfect repres of the peopl he serv . 
 herbert jarrel , technic director of accuraci test for the american associ of bioanalyst , said it is hard to see how lab can fail , yet they still do . 
 was go to be hard go all the way becaus he had n't written serious for a while , except for a few stori , was tire of the old method of realismo he had so success use in the sky is red . 
 the red sox have done thing the hard way in a late drive for their fourth divis championship in six year . 
 enter her bodi with the ghast intimaci of an incubus , and it particl , spread , creep , crawl , join themselv into steel band that constrict her knee so tight that they ach ; stifl her lung so that her breath came in harsh gasp ; clutch her throat and suck up the moistur in her mouth so that her tongu was dri and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clench togeth in the rigid fixtur of her jaw . 
 but the relationship between physic activ and cancer is harder to grasp . 
 the sometim tedious discuss of virus strain and cell type , where they came from and what was done with them may be hard go for the uniniti , but it is these detail that provid counterpoint to crewdson 's report , for those reader who wish to compar . 
 but if he think he 's go to step in and take my job , it 's go to be harder than he thinks. '' 
 `` but if it 's over a kitchen sink , it can be hard to reach the plant if the window is real deep , `` hickerson said . 
 a desert storm can be so fierc that it 's hard to stand up straight , see more than a few feet or even catch a breath . 
 whi is it so hard to find an open condemn of this aggress in our media ? 
 biden hail it as `` a tough crime bill that includ death penalti for mani more offens , make it harder for crimin to buy gun , ban assault weapon , beef up feder and local crime fighter , launch an attack on gang , on rural crime and on drug offend and provid new prisons. '' 
 the world 's lead maker of liquid crystal display screen for lap-top , the japanes firm hosiden corp. , said last month that it will no longer bother tri to export the screen to the unit state , make them harder for u.s. firm to acquir . 
 mill ' perform grow steadili in emot convict until it 's hard to imagin this damag , vulner victim is be play by the same actress who play abbi , the wick vixen of `` knot land , `` for so mani season . 
 the 67-year-old actor like the idea of do a coupl of `` gunsmok '' tv movi a year , `` but a week show would be too hard a workload for me these days. '' 
 it 's hard to maintain that kind of thing for a whole game , especi on the road. '' 
 televis is hard to fight . 
 `` it 's hard for some of us to realiz that in prosper silicon valley there are children , older folk and even whole famili in desper need of all kind of servic , from emerg food and shelter to substanc abus counsel to afford child care . 
 if so , it might be hard to match him with a co-host . 
 `` it 's been veri hard to understand whi corpor have n't seen that . 
 to some degre , it is , but it 's hard to say how much of the short-run burden is due to the current recess . 
 the first one is hard to get in until spangler show us how to bend the end slight to fit it over the motherboard 's mount rail . 
 such help is not hard to find . 
 these guidelin are voluntari , and it 's hard to determin how fast new idea are trickl into the classroom . 
 iron , stanford research , who have complain for sever year that stanford 's high overhead rate was make it harder for them to compet for grant , may benefit . 
 `` i ve been wait sinc the last day of 89 for this , and it 's hard to describ . 
 when kelleh and busi partner rollin king map out southwest 's origin rout -- between dalla , houston and san antonio -- on a cocktail napkin in 1966 , they had no idea how hard it would be for busi to take off . 
 current tax law make it harder for arizona communiti to lure team than the one in florida , and vincent is tri to influenc the legislatur . 
 now there are two problem : get the polic budget under control , so that the citi know the real cost of servic ; and decid -- this is the hard part -- whether san jose can afford those servic in this tight budget year . 
 although costlier and harder to score and compar , these are the kind of test propon of a nation exam system say they want to shoot for . 
 respons growth ' ; `` i know peopl have a hard time . . . they want to keep thing as they are , `` bricker said . 
 drs. mari jumbel and michael chambliss found that a toddler 's high center of graviti and relat larg head make it easi to toppl into a bucket and that the toddler 's lack of coordin and strength make it hard to get out . 
 it 's hard as hell to get anyth go , `` said phillip brown , novato 's citi manag . 
 it 's hard to understand and it 's unconnect to scienc polici issues. '' 
 they are hard to read and understand , but they reveal plenti to those who can interpret them . 
 landri , 52 , a former beauty-shop owner who has three biolog children and has adopt seven handicap children , say the three year it took to adopt her first son , denni , now 21 , were hard on her and the boy . 
 in particular , smith said , vapor that pose health risk could make it harder for some peopl to sell their home . 
 anita hill 's alleg of sexual harass will make it harder , not easier , for public figur to sexual harass their employe and surviv public scrutini . 
 the machin is so small and built with such common materi that it would be extrem hard to detect , said edward j. lofgren , a physicist who help to develop the devic in the earli 1940s at the univers of california at berkeley . 
 ( box ) avoid children -- kid in this group had a hard time as babi . 
 becaus the brush head is so small , it is ideal for get to those hard-to-reach place mani toothbrush miss . 
 the fdic resist that approach for month , argu that bank failur are too hard to predict . 
 it was hard to separ the two. '' 
 when `` abov '' is part of the problem , this is hard to request . 
 some candid acknowledg they would have a hard time do so . 
 `` this has alway been the librari of the peopl and now it 's go to be harder for peopl to use. '' 
 it 's hard to resist such uncondit love . 
 but it will be hard to rais anybodi 's conscious if you ca n't first get their attent . 
 the usual terrif nelligan ( `` eye of the needl '' ) is particular hard to take . 
 the hard choic are clear in the hepburn book , the desol when she find her belov spencer traci dead on her kitchen floor and the dread moment when traci 's widow tell her , `` i thought you were onli a rumor. '' 
 q has it been hard to resist the temptat to trade ? 
 this will break their hearts. ' -- boston mayor ray flynn ; it 's hard to cope with . 
 `` where did he get it ? '' - 't was easili start , but mighti hard to stop . 
 seem even harder to believ it 's still around to celebr anyth . 
 `` you have to make some hard decis . 
 `` la femm nikita '' is so american in style and execut , it 's hard to conceiv of it be ani more american than it is now . 
 `` the fact that he made that statement so earli is hard for me to understand . 
 to be sure , the past and present would not be hard to improv on . 
 the hardest part is see what it 's do to the rest of my teammates. '' 
 one resid said empti park space are hard to find in the plaza lot and she wonder what chevi 's manag plan to do about employe park . 
 it 's hard to say what it is , but i knew as soon as i saw him tell new york on the air the other day , this is not a drill . 
 they have withdrawn certain expens connect with run the presid 's hous , say they were proper but would be hard to explain to the public . 
 medak talk about how hard it was to get his `` the rule class , `` with peter o'tool , off the ground ; journalist-festiv advis gideon bachmann told would-b film maker to start think in term of stori and communic , rather than `` high art. '' 
 `` it 's realli hard to imagin what state servic are go to look like when they re finish solv this problem , `` said marcia howard , act execut director of the nation associ of state budget offic . 
 `` it 's realli hard to imagin what state servic are go to look like when they re finish solv this problem , `` said marcia howard , act execut director of the nation associ of state budget offic . 
 eighty-eight percent said it is harder to be a parent today than it use to be , and 81 percent said parent do n't spend enough time with their children . 
 it 's hard to think of a simpler arrang or a healthier exampl of bare-bon handi . 
 it may be hard for municip offici around the countri to accept it , but free-market republican believ that place like new york , philadelphia and detroit deserv to die . 
 it 's hard to believ that summer is draw to a close , but befor we know it vacat will be over and everyth will be back on a normal ( whatev that is ) schedul . 
 there is a piec of communism in all of us , and this is what will be hardest to kill. '' 
 `` what 's been realli difficult up to now is that kid realli want this in their school , but it 's hard to find ( teacher to serv as ) advis . 
 at time , it has been hard to get the word out , but all told , this chapter in georgia farm histori has reap more profit than problem . 
 in their place , stanford 's ted leland and cal 's bob bockrath are have a hard time contain their glee . 
 but frank , i find that hard to believ . 
 the hardest part of produc this book was not scale mountain , pore over law book , interview murder , write a 480-page book . 
 although it was onli 11 a.m. , the snow was get denser and harder to push with my ski . 
 toyota will have a harder time break into the midwestern market , with it strong `` buy american sentiment. '' 
 of other folklor , wysocki note : ; `` when squirrel hoard a larg store of nut , the winter will be a hard one . 
 `` the more we get , the harder it is to keep up , `` garner said in zakho . 
 say fred : `` it 's hard , but i alway priorit . 
 among those most vulner to the epidem , and hardest to reach , are recent immigr and migrant worker who are often left out of the network of social servic and health educ avail to other long-term resid . 
 and that , it turn out , is a veri , veri hard thing to do . 
 he elud the categori by which we usual sort and evalu artist : he 's unpredict , elus , hard to pin down . 
 in contrast , gene from the nucleus are scant , with onli two copi per cell , and thus harder to salvag from old , damag tissu . 
 `` it 's harder than run . 
 is , i insist , hard to defin the rayburn contribut to our polit civil becaus it is so massiv and so widespread and so complic , and becaus it goe so deep . 
 baldwin 's biggest mistak ; alec baldwin , who co-star with kim basing in `` the marri man '' for a divis of disney , give the studio a hard time in an interview with entertain week magazin . 
 `` for famili that are n't make big incom , it 's realli hard to keep a roof over their head , `` said fran wagstaff , director of the mid-peninsula hous coalit , a non-profit group that help develop and maintain afford hous unit in the bay area . 
 they want congress to make it harder for individu to file . 
 between the superb fish chowder , the rock lobster they call guinea chick on bermuda , plus conch stew , pan-fri rockfish , and other fresh seafood , it 's not hard to dine veri well . 
 if the dove was even close on the first day of the talk , it was hard to tell . 
 `` wintertim is the hardest time , `` said trish crowder , execut director of the san jose shelter foundat and vice chairwoman of the center 's plan committe . 
 of cours , to see her everi sunday , from the waist up , alway smile behind her desk at espn , it 's hard to imagin that pixi look on the polish robin robert . 
 implement the nutrit label and educ act of 1990 , the bush administr has said it should n't be hard . 
 if it escap into the neighbor 's lawn you ll find it hard to erad without kill the other grass . 
 john f. kennedi was presid , but you 'd have a hard time find a trace of his romant camelot in turlock circa 1962 -- the time and place of `` pink lightn , `` tonight 's premier movi on the fox network . 
 the machin that take a dna fragment and spin out copi is n't much harder to use than the newest xerox . 
 the step are not especi difficult , but it flow line and haunt , unearth atmospher are hard to master . 
 former kansa citi royal second baseman frank white , with his outstand career clear near it end , is have a hard time get a contract for 1991 . 
 it 's hard to say what make peopl censor. '' 
 and they could make it veri hard for king fahd of saudi arabia and presid hosni mubarak of egypt to keep fight -- and keep risk more arab live -- now that saddam has offer to pull out if israel will do the same . 
 bonni raitt is a woman in love -- it 's aw hard to miss that . 
 as for this year 's team , `` i have a hard time describ this team other than they play well together. '' 
 in dunsmuir , the econom damag is harder to assess . 
 it was even harder for him to accept the news this time , but trevor wilson just knot his tie and dodg question . 
 `` i had a real hard time sit on the bench , `` said knecht , who also play safeti in high school . 
 `` the area is so big , so vast , that it 's realli hard to get a handl on it , `` he said . 
 were these skill missil maker hard to find ? 
 such disclosur would put a spotlight of embarrass on banker , and make it harder for the problem of troubl institut to be swept under the rug . 
 find time can be the hardest part , so schedul your choic or you may never do it . 
 it 's hard to miss san mateo 's dunfey hotel from highway 101 . 
 even from the perspect of time and empti raid can , it is hard to decid which were wors : santa ana 's fli water bug or southern maryland 's chirp cricket . 
 kid-test bean recip are hard to come by . 
 i had no quarrel with the flavor of either steak or sauc , but the meat was fill with gristl and hard to cut , even with the dull steak knife i final obtain from a waiter after our own simpli ignor my request . 
 stood up , smooth her hair down , straighten her cloth , feel a thank for the envelop dark outsid , and , abov everyth els , for the absenc of the need to answer , to respond , to be awar even of stowey come in or go out , and yet , now that she was begin to cook , she glimps a futur without him , a futur alon like this , and the pain made her head writh , and in a moment she found it hard to wait for lucretia to come with her guest . 
 perhap the part mani find hardest is the necess for profess appreci afterward . 
 `` it 's hard to do good when you ve been do bad . 
 as davi cup `` miracl '' go , this one will be hard to beat . 
 `` it 's a hard cours , but i did n't see a darn thing wrong with it . 
 is hard to blame them for this . 
 `` that 's hard to do . 
 `` it 's hard here to understand the separ of the two becaus of all the violenc we see in our daili live , `` he said . 
 `` the next day we were record in the studio -- and this is hard to believ -- but of all thing , lonni jordan spill some wine on the record consol . 
 a ground war , he said , `` will be veri hard. '' 
 `` as old as i am , it 's all still hard to face peopl who take their parent respons so light . 
 they did n't take the telephon line down -- how hard can that be ? -- allow yeltsin to communic with georg bush and john major , both of whom did all that they could to lay down the law from the intern perspect . 
 `` edg citi are hard to defin , `` he write , `` becaus they rare have a mayor or citi council . . . '' 
 we got through ; by falsifi result ' ; diana caldwel found out the hard way what can happen when lab test go wrong . 
 `` it is hard to find a plant that is not a host , `` natwick said . 
 both writer are fair interest , particular mcnamara , but at the end it 's hard to figur out whi adam chose either . 
 randisi , who is respons for the roundup , said it is get harder to persuad the duck into the trap -- cover , wire mesh enclosur , curv at the end for the entranc . 
 unfortun , the snow pea and the noodl were bad overcook and the piec of chicken were harder than find a shortstop who hit 40 home run . 
 it 's hard to be a phenom -- especi when you re alway recov from injuri . 
 it 's hard to take this too serious in light of jenkin ' comment after a 73-3 season-open win over louisiana tech . 
 everett said he thought cox was go to run a longer rout over the middl , but it 's hard to imagin everett get the ball over bowl in that situat . 
 it turn into one of those thing when the more you reach out to someon , the harder they are to touch . 
 obstacl : she has a heart condit that make it hard for her heart to work effici . 
 is it so hard to believ that nativ american were and still are just like everyon els ? 
 if the dough is too hard , you may have to wait 3 to 5 minut , but it will cut clean and you wo n't lose narrow part of the cutout . 
 it 's pretti hard to beat that down , `` she said . 
 moreov , said david wyss , research director for dri/mcgraw-hil , an econom consult firm , `` a weak christma will mean it would be hard to get much action in the first quarter of 1992 becaus retail will be overstock and order anemic. '' 
 the session was n't entir serious -- it 's hard to be too serious over lunch at bini 's -- but the point was there : if the supe ca n't agre on new district line reflect popul chang from the 1990 census , somebodi els ( three somebodi , actual ) will . 
 without clear and reliabl mammographi , research say , breast cancer is more like to go undetect until it is larger and harder to treat . 
 hard year of `` on the job '' train had brought them to their compet . 
 `` david duke has some good idea about some thing , but i think it would be hard for him to accomplish some of those idea , `` hebert told new orlean report . 
 `` the hardest thing was , you 'd turn around and the drummer ( steve jordan ) has switch with the bass player ( charli drayton ) and then on the next song they ve switch back. '' 
 nothin 's worth have if it ai n't ; a littl hard to get . 
 it was hard to skate after mark , `` said galindo , who split with pair partner kristi yamaguchi last april after they had won back-to-back nation titl . 
 accord to stephen o'donnel , assist store manag at the mcdonald 's where the mclean is avail in san jose , `` it 's hard to beat those 320 calories. '' 
 it was too hard to get help . 
 it 's hard to face down a room of elder and disabl peopl plead for merci . 
 but when he left the bay area , he found victori harder to come by . 
 the expert also note that parent who are intens polit about their sexual may make it harder for their children by deni them the option of secreci . 
 `` i think most peopl have a hard time believ that the suprem court could take away a constitut right , `` say kolbert . 
 i know it 's hard , i know they re have a tough time , with the cost of live . 
 the hardest decis could involv bass , presum he return on the schedul date . 
 `` it 's hard to flush thing out of your mind with all these stat and these game the businessmen play , `` he said . 
 may be hard to decid what this labor is worth , but charg someth for it . 
 other rider insist the helmet distort their balanc and make it harder to see . 
 `` the hardest thing to do is to do someth that you feel veri strong about music , that realli reflect you , and that also reach a lot of peopl , too . 
 point to his experi in foreign-exchang trade , bradi contend that it 's hard for govern to success affect the cours of such larg market . 
 when you re success -- and success in the game today is win and make money -- it 's real hard to say you re not do the right thing when your team has been in the world seri three year in a row , you ve led the leagu in home run and you re make $ 3 million a year , `` jackson said . 
 `` at least i went for the hardest thing , `` he said . 
 if , for exampl , you do n't see yourself paddl serious whitewat , there 's probabl no need for a small , super-dur ( read heavi ) nimbl ( read hard to control ) model . 
 `` they have to understand that in time that get harder , provid a benefit like this is not frivolous. '' 
 perhap it is your wish to never have to learn anyth hard again ? 
 it 's hard to believ , for exampl , that judi rankin has n't made it . 
 as he stick his black nose through the fenc and whimper for attent , one find it hard to believ that anyon would n't want this dog . 
 `` it 's a veri hard choic , `` echo santa clara mayor sue lasher , who also has a vote . 
 we live in a dirt-floor shack in the northern nevada desert with neighbor of a similar mind -- nice folk most , until the sun went down and alcohol mix with strong emot and it becam hard to rememb that we all love and care about one anoth . 
 back in the cheap seat , the one that onli cost $ 150 each , it was hard to tell , at least until the video screen on the side of the huge tent on the hospit ground flick on , and we got video confirm -- a quick glimps of the white hair , the broad smile , the trademark pearl . 
 `` it 's hard to talk about our success without talk about dianna 's success , `` he say . 
 one hard choic will involv the promis addit of 45 polic offic next year . 
 the ntsb said the light configur use by the skywest plane compli with feder regul , but would have made it harder to see than if it had been fulli illumin . 
 that make it hard to provid enough open space spread even through the develop , the report said . 
 the film bring us closer than we ve ever been to herd of the skittish beast , which have surviv in larg number onli becaus they ve been harder for poacher to find and more expens to hunt becaus of their remot . 
 after five year of hard -- dri -- lesson , santa clara valley water offici are look for way to store more water dure raini year . 
 american cathol learn a hard lesson when exclus ethnic `` nation '' church common in the east and midwest close when parishion move to the suburb . 
 `` it 's veri hard for singl parent , who are struggl , to be activ in deal with the communiti , `` she said . 
 for a person on the road for ten thousand mile a year , that add up to about one chanc in ten thousand per year of be kill in an automobil accid , much larger than mani of the other risk we tri so hard to exorcis , but still less than a tenth the averag risk of death from smoking. '' 
 i find it hard to talk about peopl who are fan of mine . 
 she say it 's hard to sit with her husband and watch a movi in which she make passion love to an on-screen co-star . 
 it get hard to explain what they actual see. '' 
 but at this remot outpost , up steep path of thick mud inaccess to most truck , it is hard to see a pattern to the haphazard distribut of what thus far have been meager food and water suppli . 
 though they found a higher proport of player list as out or doubt after game on artifici surfac , duberstein said actual sever of injuri was hard to accur measur . 
 heather said it 's hard for her to concentr on schoolwork when , direct across the street , drug dealer are do a brisk and lethal busi . 
 `` the stori of their creation and journey from new zealand is hard to determin , `` say nathen wright , part owner of the nurseri . 
 `` mayb if i 'd had hunter befor , `` she said , `` i would n't have had such a hard time with it. '' 
 scott halem work with a group that distribut needl week to hard-to-reach , high-risk intraven drug addict . 
 sinc he hold no public offic , it 's harder for him to rais money . 
 it 's realli hard , all the thing that go along with this ; it 's not as easi as a lot of peopl look at it . 
 q is it go to be hard to ration anoth 5 percent ? 
 `` i can sympath with investor , these are hard risk to understand , `` said william gross , manag director with pacif invest manag co. in newport beach , calif . 
 `` it might be hard to say that when you walk nine men , but the problem was he had too much adrenaline. '' 
 the cutback , especi those involv remov of manag layer , indic that most young manag will have a harder and longer time get not onli salari increas but actual promot . 
 in mani state , he said , the governor , legislatur and mayor are angl so hard for tactic advantag that `` it 's hard to figur out what 's behind all the polit smoke and mirrors. '' 
 it would be so hard to get everyon togeth . 
 `` tell her what you think , '' i said ; but in a conformist small town this was evid as hard as for an atheist parent to challeng religi instruct . 
 `` it 's hard to explain . 
 as frustrat as the situat can seem , it 's hard to knock the a 's for tri to maxim sale . 
 `` it 's hard to explain to a 3-year-old , `` she say . 
 the hard part is guess what he might be good at do on tv . 
 these day , it 's hard to find anyon in silicon valley or elsewher who doe n't reli on a person comput , work station , network and the other accouter of high technolog to do his job . 
 `` to have fraud , there has to be crimin intent there , and that 's hard to prove. '' 
 it may be hard land a ceo for kaleida becaus of the impress credenti demand by the search team , head by appl vice presid david nagel . $ 
 but like mani of about 25 other wit be sought , they are hard to locat becaus they do not yet have perman hous . 
 you may find this hard to believ , but i love him dear and it hurt when i see the way his famili live while i struggl to bare make end meet . 
 come to america has alway been hard . 
 after the hear wednesday , serra and other support acknowledg that the celebr status and massiv popular support that help croy gain his freedom may also have made it harder to adjust later when , as the judg put it , the `` glitter goe away. '' 
 lawyer involv in mental health issu say compani are unlik to tri to get rid of mental ill worker befor the law take effect , in part becaus mani of these employe have not come forward and are hard to identifi . 
 it 's hard to believ he wo n't be come home. '' 
 `` it 's hard to say i 'm happi becaus of a man 's life here , `` said dian nelson , the mother of slain esl worker wayn `` buddi '' william . 
 it 's hard to imagin a bunch of bureaucrat go for this ornament on the side of an age brick build downtown . 
 `` it 's hard enough for ani famili , `` he add . 
 part of the problem , he say , is it 's hard to know what 's import . 
 when it come time to plant the new bare-root rose in januari , the hard part will be done . 
 and it is hard to know what his ideal bat weight should be . 
 `` i mean , it ca n't be that hard to get him a replac , `` arata said . 
 wilson 's last-minut worker 's compens propos , which fail to emerg from an assembl committe wednesday afternoon , would make it harder for worker to collect injuri payment for stress-rel claim . 
 firefight had a harder time than expect stop the blaze that has jump contain line and spread to more than 2 , 750 acr . 
 bill stone , presid of stanford 's alumni associ , said the alumni 's fierc loyalti to stanford has made the controversi especi hard to take . 
 take , for instanc , the promin sign over the fit room that were harder to find in older k mart . 
 howev , run dos softwar , the zenith is faster at the same task , though harder to learn than the mac . 
 despit hard financi time , the counti last year hand out $ 550 `` bonus '' to each of it 2 , 000 manag , they said . 
 it 's hard to get corpor to rethink that. '' 
 `` if you have a hard time save in the first place , they make a lot of sens , `` she said . 
 lean back on the couch in the east san jose home he 's live in sinc 1950 , matsumura think back to the older day and say it 's hard for him to believ that 50 year have gone by . 
 it seem hard to believ now , but it was not till five month later that i brought up the subject in desper . 
 get the measur on the ballot for the nov. 5 elect was not hard to do becaus the solicit for a signatur on the initi was slant in a provoc way ; get the intellig peopl of sunnyval to vote for it will be a much more difficult job -- in this case doubli hard becaus sunnyval is so well-run . 
 this is a hard time to be synthes news from half a world away . 
 but take that first step -- sign up for a swim lesson -- can be the hardest part . 
 david lloyd , a berkeley professor who teach coloni literatur and minor literatur , said , `` it is hard to be a professor now . 
 darkw is what batman might have becom if bruce wayn 's mom had marri howard the duck : a tongue-in-cheek crime fighter who 's hard to take serious . 
 `` one of the hardest thing is to learn to pace yourself . 
 for most peopl , it 's hard to imagin anyth good about a migrain headach . 
 with name like `` swordfish '' and `` lightn , `` it 's hard to rememb these product are realli advanc new semiconductor . 
 ( check ) former bankrupt may find it hard to get a job . 
 so it 's hard not to rais an eyebrow as you listen to `` luck of the draw , `` her new album and the follow-up to 1989 's `` nick of time , `` which won three grammi , sold 2 million copi and rais raitt from cult to star status . 
 `` i find it hard to see how they could be more cooper , `` said robert destatt , a defens intellig agenc research specialist . 
 when you come home from work after a hard day , your loyal dog is alway there to make you feel welcom by leap up on you with insan joy and knock you down and drool all over your busi cloth . 
 in a brochur avail to it custom , hertz said the car that it sell are in `` peak mechan and physic shape '' and receiv `` the kind of constant profession care that is hard for a backyard mechan to provide. '' 
 `` it was kind of hard not play much , `` julien said . 
 `` when you ve cut administr as we have , it 's go to be harder to tell someon to focus on ( dropout ) , `` he said. , `` but that 's not to say that we wo n't do it. '' 
 in mani case , it 's not veri hard for someon to look up your wed licens , the deed to your hous , your polit parti or what car you drive . 
 `` it 's just so hard to get a job in nashvill , becaus there are so mani good singer in town. '' 
 `` it 's veri difficult to describ the euphor feel you get when you win the game and , convers , it 's hard to describ the pain you go through when you lose the game , primarili becaus of all the critic that 's heap on you. '' 
 break the tech talk habit , howev , is a lot harder than it sound . 
 to decreas the risk of injuri , develop and follow a hard/easi schedul . 
 he know how hard it can be , have endur the experi at rough the same age . 
 slime mold fruit bodi are often veri beauti , but most are so tini that they re hard to see clear without a magnifi glass . 
 i just said , this is too hard , too difficult and there is no joy in this. ' `` ; burnett note that televis has chang sinc the 1970s . 
 we made `` the right approach '' veri quick , and it was hard work . 
 bush 's anguish that night is hard to believ in view of the fact that he launch the attack on iraq after month of unrel pressur on congress , the u.n. , and the american peopl to accept war , and after reject everi opportun for a peac solut . 
 marriag start on paper ; what make this war even harder for georgia van zanten is know that her son is start his marriag through letter to jennif . 
 and he was kick his front leg in a way that made it harder to drive forward . 
 it 's hard to predict their effici in rough sea , `` said testa . 
 so it 's hard to say. '' 
 `` when you take a nicknam and do n't demean it , `` kelli said , `` i have a hard time with ( ani flap ) . '' 
 `` it was a veri , veri hard thing for us to take . . . when you ve dedic 4 1/2 year of your life and you just want to hold onto him. '' 
 but fresh fruit and veget grower will have a harder time becaus mexican competitor alreadi have a share of our market and want more . 
 `` but , if it 's someth a client alreadi has and is particular drawn to , it 's pretti hard to pull them away from it. '' 
 `` it 's hard to do two thing at onc , `` say ramey , who earlier that day had bash his face against the side of a helicopt dure a bumpi takeoff . 
 such photo of the current crisi are hard to come by becaus of the lack of media coverag . 
 `` how hard is it to get a gun , when a 10-year-old can get it ? `` said sgt. john sieracki , who head a drug enforc unit . 
 although the rule would not technic be bind on other superior court justic , without substanti new evid `` it would be hard ( for them ) to arriv at a differ conclus , `` said david reiser , an attorney for the d.c. public defend servic . 
 sometim it 's hard to figur where one track end and anoth begin , so smooth doe nelson maintain the tone of the set . 
 attract women seem to have the hardest time get date . 
 sure , a few psychopath may actual do these thing , but it 's pretti hard to drum up support for them at the offic . 
 the hardest thing about the piec is not it step -- which are most run and fast chang of direct -- but it fluiditi . 
 it was hard to track what happen to amelior the gripe , but it was easi to see on the local news the effect of the walk ; peopl saw a mayor who pound the pavement , the leadership equival of the cop on the beat . 
 but i find it hard to believ that a truli homeless person is best serv by live in a garbag dump and have to deal with drug dealer . 
 which is too bad , becaus it 's hard to think of a place less like the former kron ( ch. 4 ) weather forecast than l.a. , where insincer and do lunch are art form . 
 some of them are a littl harder to get to know and to be abl to believ in what you re tri to teach them. '' 
 it would be too hard to coordin schedul for three differ group -- not to mention all that equipment. '' 
 as we face harder econom time , we see more need develop in our communiti and a greater sens of urgenc to look for help beyond govern , beyond the church and the non-profit sector . 
 becaus it 's usual veri hard to assess blame for water wast , it 's virtual imposs to assess water penalti fair . 
 subtl violat are ; the hardest to prove ; i am 35 and . . . have alway work in the technical/profession area and have a great deal of interact with my account . 
 `` those student who find it hard to stay on task or be respect find me communic regular about that. '' 
 it 's hard to know if kid fulli understand how bleak her vision is , but if they do , you can bet they wo n't ever be use the air condition in their car . 
 the fastbal that gag hit was n't as hard as the one he 'd been throwing. '' 
 they can trigger recur nightmar or intrus thought , make it hard to concentr . 
 the last five week have been hard on scu , but this might have been the toughest to take . 
 `` david bonior has earn this posit the hard way , `` said rep. john lewi , d-ga. , `` by do the nitty-gritti , unglamor work each and everi day. '' 
 you said you had `` a hard time believ such a thing could happen. '' 
 `` sometim , i 'd have a hard time at school . 
 `` today , it 's a harder scene , `` observ univers spokesman ray colvig , a 1953 graduat of cal . 
 there will alway be some who tri to bend the rule , but clear , stiff rule are at least harder to bend . 
 otherwis it 's hard to tell . 
 and , it 's not hard to get to , be onli 200 mile from either berlin or vienna . 
 `` when you put them up side by side , it 's hard to make an argument that ( the lotteri ) doe n't violat the law. '' 
 in other action : ; ( check ) the court today said it will consid make it harder for titl insur compani to fix price . 
 the baron of the nashvill country-mus machin learn that lesson the hard way last year at the grammi award . 
 favorit movi : `` the last one i saw i like was the shelter sky. ' `` ; music prefer : `` sinc i am a musician , i 'd say improvis creativ music , which is hard to describe. '' 
 it 's kind of hard for a student to talk to a teacher like that . 
 it 's hard for them to read. '' 
 a newark offic build orphan by the save and loan crisi has been offer to the citi of newark in a deal citi offici say may be hard to refus . 
 but the idea of discard the basic etiquett and sanitari measur of the societi is so revolt to civil peopl that it is hard to imagin anyon 's have the stomach to do it as a joke . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to say what will happen in term of addit servic becaus we ve got to get the servic up and run , `` caltran spokesman jim drago said . 
 but with job hard to find and competit fierc , she is among a grow number of peopl take refug from the recess by return to colleg . 
 `` in a war , it 's kind of hard not to stick with a uniti theme , `` a hous democrat leadership aid said . 
 that make it harder to draw district that favor minor candid , he said . 
 `` the common denomin for all these children is that they live in santa clara counti , where life is veri hard for famili , `` said paul schutz , director of develop for social advoc for youth , a counsel and educ program for youth . 
 `` it 's realli hard for them right now , `` sheriff 's sgt. jim knudsen said . 
 it 's hard for citi to provid afford hous , he said . 
 it would be hard to find a mother in america today who has n't wonder if a woman were in the white hous , would we be at war . 
 it is you ... would it be grievous hard on you ? '' 
 `` we want to make the right decis for the good of the communiti , `` mors said , `` and it 's a just a hard decis to make. '' 
 `` where we will be go today , `` johnson said befor the ride , `` is about a two on a scale of one to 10 ( 10 be the hardest ) . 
 `` it 's veri hard to keep a research agenda intact , be gone ani longer than i was , `` she say . 
 `` it 's hard to get them to put on their name tag , some are veri shi , but when they do put on their name tag they have a good time , `` say cleer , laugh . 
 although he continu to insist he is enjoy the challeng , and show no outward sign of wear and tear , wilson 's find out the hard way that spencer 's warn contain a lot more than a grain of truth . 
 it 's hard to work up a lot of warmth for a person with her psycholog hang-up and general poor tast in men . 
 'i did n't do it ' ; `` it 's hard for me to believ this is happen , `` he said in an interview last week . 
 i 'd like to find billi some relief , but it 's just hard to do right now. '' 
 the hardest thing that i suffer on the person level was the treacheri . 
 a friend of the coupl , joyc thompson , said rob had told her three day afterward , while searcher were still look for blair , `` it 's go to be hard rais nicol alone. '' 
 best of all , we now put moral , leadership and real answer to hard question ahead of deprav , expedi and divers -- right ? 
 sometim , it 's hard to imagin yosemit as conservationist john muir first view it pristin magnific . 
 `` it 's not a place i love be , `` she said , mean the limelight , `` and it 's hard to make up $ 72 , 000 . 
 ana jaramillo bicakci , 25 , a geologist in san jose , found the drama to be a dispirit lesson in how hard it is for men and women to communic . 
 `` it 's hard to tell how peopl are go to react to this , `` debley said . 
 said ned : `` if we do n't make it , we ll regroup , but it will be hard to get the momentum up again. '' 
 `` it 's hard for them to get to the point where they do n't feel guilti for be raped. '' 
 or mario eli , whose minut have been hard to find . 
 and the public sector has not fill the gap , he said , note that medicaid coverag is often harder to get in state that have larg popul of black . 
 you lose it at that time in a big game , it 's hard to take. '' 
 it 's hard to believ that ibj got caught in it. '' 
 now come the hard part -- how to go about it . 
 the power of arrog ; `` the hardest thing is sublim the fear that you do n't know what you re do , `` he say , after a long paus . 
 `` it 's hard to realiz this is the last time we can come to see a blackford game here . 
 it 's hard to get the rhythm under those condit . 
 kennedi told a meet of the faculti committe on research on tuesday that stanford might decid to forgo some of the overhead charg becaus they are too hard to explain to the public . 
 the tree fill the yard with so mani leav it is hard to keep up . 
 mayb it would be good for them. ' `` ; deal with state shortfal in special educ fund is harder sinc the class are mandat by state and feder law requir that school provid all servic mental and physic handicap children need . 
 `` but , at time , it 's hard. '' 
 `` i extend my hand -- and it 's pretti hard to extend it to the guy ( mayor bradley ) i extend it to , let me tell you. '' 
 it 's hard to believ that a man so intellig could be an alcoholic/addict . 
 howev , he admit , `` i 'm have a hard time get fund for it . 
 the bread should be quit hard and crisp but still pliabl enough to cut . 
 as regard simpl absenc of humour , i like to think i 'm as fond of a good laugh as the next man , but i can stand do without for long period when read , have been train in the oxford english school , and mani of the best science-fict stori , `` the xi effect , '' for exampl , distil a kind of horror hard to conceiv of as harmonis plausibl with anyth comic . 
 while book to resort such as hawaii still will be hard to come by , seat to other destin in the continent u.s. may be avail , even at the last minut . 
 we do n't want you to imagin it will be easi , but we ve given you betti friedan 's the second stage ( summit , 1981 ) to get a sens of whi it 's worth tri to get the mix right , and arli hochschild 's the second shift ( vike , 1989 ) so you ll realiz that it 's hard for everyon , not just for you . 
 it 's veri hard to sell meat in los angel . 
 it 's easi to say and harder to prove . 
 `` i was n't doubt my abil , but it 's hard to keep a posit attitud sometim , `` chitren said . 
 but the tenor of their romanc is such that it is hard to see how these two could go wrong and , in the end , they do n't . 
 what is even harder to face for some is how fundament the suprem court , along with the countri , has chang sinc that day in 1967 when presid johnson pick marshal to replac justic tom clark . 
 compani such as everex will have a harder time differenti themselv . 
 although she is one of the most close observ anim of modern time , it is hard to tell for sure . 
 they prove that the onli reason these guy do n't belong in a museum is they are hard to read stand up . 
 all of a sudden , japan is burst with plan to import more foreign-mad product -- and it is not hard to figur out whi . 
 sam jankovich , miami 's athlet director from 1983 until leav last decemb to becom the new england patriot ' chief oper offic , issu a statement saturday that said : `` it 's hard for me to believ this kind of thing could happen given the structur of the financial-aid system. '' 
 time for a realiti check ; these day , it 's get harder to distinguish box from pro wrestl . 
 he say it is hard for him to say `` my daughter. '' 
 this was also the hardest part of the movi for kathleen jalalpour to watch . 
 it is hard to know whi they did this , but we can specul . 
 `` it 's hard to justifi pay $ 140 , 000 for black-and-whit when you get color for free. '' 
 she was have a hard time french braid her hair . 
 `` we re in a time of rapid social chang , and it 's hard to know what the rule are at ani point , `` said polit scientist and journal professor philip meyer of the univers of north carolina . 
 unfortun , it 's hard to buy crape myrtl by varieti . 
 the compani stock valu of one of our broker has grown from a $ 3 , 100 contribut made on his behalf in 1985 to $ 77 , 000 six year later ; it would be hard to find a better retir plan . 
 `` that make it damn hard to make a profit . 
 it was n't so hard befor . 
 and sinc the cast rotat for each perform , it would be hard to pull off a flawless show . 
 `` it 's hard when you come this far . . . well , it 's hard to lose anytim , `` said sjs quarterback matt veatch , who threw an intercept that was return for minnesota 's go-ahead touchdown . 
 `` this is harder than run a citi council meet , `` spangler said , quip . 
 candic also learn the hard way that time is a crucial element in some research . 
 quarterback joe montana 's stori run of success with the 49er has been so spectacular that it is hard to imagin it could have gone anoth way . 
 accord to deacon jeremiah yang , chun 's commit to better the live of poor korean -- and his suicid -- were forg more by his recognit of misrul than by his own hard life . 
 the frozen food section continu to burst with new conveni meal , main dish and snack item , but nutrit inform can be hard to find unless there 's a health pitch with the product . 
 `` the one thing there was univers support for was the fact that he had been through a hard time. '' 
 but the council approv a last-minut amend that will make it harder to win the univers regent ' approv . 
 `` it 's much harder to do that kind of intellig dramat seri with overlap stori line today and keep it on the air , `` he said , refer to the grow competit that has made patienc a cost virtu . 
 in other word , all the peopl you figur would have a hard time find work anywher els are still stuck at wkrp a decad later . 
 `` starlight angel '' short , cram with ken and barbi facsimil , is particular hard to take . 
 was the onli thing about her that was the least bit hard to rememb . 
 cuomo describ the issu of hire quota as `` a nice thing to discuss , especi if you want to get peopl 's eye off the real problem ( the economi ) , which you ca n't deal with becaus it 's too hard politically. '' 
 black truffl are prize for impart flavor to food and are expens -- $ 500 a pound or more for fresh product -- becaus they are hard to come by and the world 's suppli has been reduc by over-harvest . 
 with all the buzz go on from everybodi 's electron agenda , voic memo-tak , pill-tak remind and other such unnecessarili fanci trinket , it is hard to tell . 
 her career is set now , and her sing is hard to beat . 
 my favorit holiday halloween- ; is realli hard to beat ! 
 `` it 's hard to be excit and upset at the same time , becaus we got so close , `` sander said . 
 but we could n't even go to leningrad without permiss -- and that was hard to get , `` he said . 
 one ought not to propos remedi except for admit evil ; and i find it hard to say that the popular of oxford and cambridg is an evil . 
 it 's alway hard when you re play a team with a lose record . 
 `` i 'm afraid i had a hard time wake up this morn after what i drank last night. '' 
 `` it 's get as hard to keep up with us as it is with the player , `` one general manag muse . 
 miss manner fail to understand whi this is so hard . 
 `` develop and builder are have a hard time . 
 the godfath of comedi ; in the mid-'80 , it was hard to think of san francisco comedi without think of alex bennett , the don corleon of the scene . 
 it was go to be hard after a summer of play ( gabriela ) sabatini and martina , then play the no. 1 for fresno state. '' 
 `` you re talk about peopl who have a hard enough time get down the street . 
 besid , the true `` valu '' of a particular packag is far harder to defin than just a dollars-and-c initi price . 
 when your own need are not met , it 's hard to take care of other ' need . 
 no-fault make it easier and faster to be compen sate for the typic medium-s accid , but harder to file lawsuit and mayb win big buck . 
 even your three-bedroom , two-bath , four semi-automat famili know how darn hard it is to get instant servic . 
 `` it 's hard to do someth you do n't believ in. '' 
 i had a lot of fun on r & r and it was so hard to come back here . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that it happened. '' 
 the engin do not produc smoke , so it is hard for the nake eye to spot the eagl high in the sky . 
 and at 6-foot-7 and 300 pound , that 's a hard feel to have . 
 it 's hard for me to sit and nod my head at repeat stori anymore. '' 
 `` she was just as agil and quick and it was even hard to tell she had a limb miss , `` said willey , who live in sacramento . 
 `` but it make it harder for stanford in term of public relat . 
 lawmak told clifford , the ultim washington insid , they found it hard to believ he did n't know that the foreign-own bank of credit and commerc intern had exercis illicit control over the big u.s. bank he head . 
 although it is hard to say exact how mani peopl might do this , the compani -- world odyssey of los alto -- is plan to build such a project here amid the deep canyon and steep red sandston cliff and spire of zion nation park and at mani other park and monument around the countri . 
 it 's kind of hard to run when you re constant take the ball out ( of bound ) . '' 
 they are get harder to find becaus of their popular . 
 `` but it 's hard for me to take it from anoth person. '' 
 western may have a hard time differenti authent spiritu leader from those prone to exploit , he say , becaus we have a differ way of judg thing -- a way of judgment base on materi . 
 `` it 's hard to do a trick like this , this far out , `` bagian said . 
 with more single-par household and more mother in two-par famili who work outsid the home nowaday , it 's harder for parent to squeez in time to meet with teacher , mineta ad . 
 bias is hard to overcom . 
 with more bmws and mercedes per squar inch than ani place this side of munich , it 's hard to believ that saratoga was onc a rootin ' tootin ' lumber town where , as one newspap observ , `` there were seven saloon in the villag and to be 'a drunk from saratoga ' was the last word in drunkenness. '' 
 `` peopl are final realli talk about this stuff and that 's great , but it is still hard to explain to some men whi these thing are offens , `` said seavello , the third-year stanford medic student . 
 a decis in favor of the landown would make it harder for govern to enact and enforc law to protect the environ . 
 `` it 's hard to underestim the import of this paper , `` said dr. david williamson of the center for diseas control . 
 `` it 's hard to tell , `` ross said . 
 i ve never been good with breviti , / so i ll add just a littl levity. / more vers i guess i must recit ; / there are some thing which are hard to right / so pleas forgiv me if i go on in this fashion / on this issu a few of you might tend toward passi ( o ) n ' . . . / you know if you keep go on this way , / for a poetic licens , one will have to pay ! 
 inflat , hard to estim becaus mani price are control , has been from 30 to 60 percent a year in mani key commod , say ilya prizel , an associ professor at john hopkin school for advanc intern studi . 
 `` it was hard to figur out what they were up to. '' 
 left-hand steve whitak made his long-await profession basebal debut friday night , but it was hard to tell who was more anxious at game time -- whitak or his pitch coach , gari luca . 
 the last few , he said , have been hard becaus more and more men seem to be arriv daili . 
 hackett , make his first start sinc he turn asid 48 of 52 shot in a 4-3 loss in last friday 's season open in vancouv , said he had a hard time get into the flow of the game becaus of the long layoff . 
 in dual meet , we were hard to beat. '' 
 both side agre that it 's hard to make a live on $ 5 to $ 6 an hour . 
 still , the simpl fact that a blind man could compos the soundtrack to a film he ca n't see is a wonder that make this album hard to dismiss . 
 `` as angri as the busi communiti may be , until this industri begin make profit in line with other industri it 's hard to make a case '' for lower fare . 
 `` see it on televis , see exact what women go through and then see the verdict is send a clear messag : it is veri , veri hard and you re not go to get anyth out of it , `` said melani boyd of san francisco women against rape . 
 there are so mani excel australian plant it is hard to choos among them . 
 all three are among the grow number who have fallen on time so hard they have had to ask for help to feed and hous their famili . 
 with one stroke of his veto pen , gov. pete wilson has made it harder for immigr to learn english and becom more product californian . 
 although cupertino 's suppos affluenc make that figur hard to believ , mani peopl in the citi are face such oner hous cost that they run out of money for food , said norl . 
 hard as this is on the soul of the artist , it doe , howev , halt the viewer 's frantic search for familiar theme and object . 
 it is hard to say it now , but that 's how it was. '' 
 `` it 's hard for peopl to concentrate. '' 
 `` it 's hard to win , `` he declar , `` when you ca n't get an inch on fourth-and-inches. '' 
 the hardest prepar i ve ever done was for number one , also call pro , about a footbal player , in 1968 . 
 if you tri to unit communiti of interest around the downtown , it 's hard not to end up with a major hispan district . 
 and even if they did n't , `` it 's hard to make a legal case if everyon sign the proper form , `` say soocher . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that i had 11 tryout with eight team befor land a job with kansa citi , `` loweri said . 
 piniella never thought repeat could be so hard . 
 `` it 's incred hard if the woman is a higher achiev and make mayb more than the man. '' 
 there was a sens of isol , of not fit in , that was hard to overcom , she said . 
 it 's hard to continu the momentum . 
 `` i think it will be lot harder to get physician to sign up for the reserv or stay in the reserv . 
 it 's not hard to figur where cash get her perspect . 
 `` it 's not the same team i face last year or the year befor , so it 's realli hard to explain , `` said hawkin , obvious not want to analyz this thing to death . 
 `` you have to wait a long time for your next game , and it 's hard to stay sharp. '' 
 that 's a beauti qualiti and it 's hard to find : a man commit to marriag . 
 `` it 's hard now , in hindsight , to say that this guy would ever have respond to ration pressur like sanction , `` say democrat advis michael mccurri . 
 `` it 's hard to defin what it 's do for me becaus i eat well , get enough sleep and exercis the best i can. '' 
 she has a hard time get around but has help at home . 
 the humve climb a 60-degre grade , is hard to flip and run in ice , mud , snow and , of cours , sand . 
 the standard gas plasma screen was replac by an electroluminesc display ; the gas plasma screen was easi to read but overh quick , and astronaut reject the replac liquid crystal display as hard to read . 
 to complic matter , reader had a hard time find alpin lace lean n ' free . 
 use statist evid and interview , gordon make a good case for how hard it is to care . 
 alleg that the propos edenval amend repres the most signific chang in land use polici in san jose in 20 year are hard to fathom . 
 `` it 's hard for a parent to think about a child be put in that situat , `` he say . 
 on wednesday night , a new group of oppon emerg to argu that the center should not be name after mceneri becaus no one would recogn it and the convent center would therefor be harder to market . 
 as i start the long descent , which was harder than the ascent , someon told me the oldest person to reach the summit was 74 year old . 
 if you have n't seen dame edna , it 's kind of hard to describ her . 
 `` in the entir downtown area , we do n't get ani aluminum can and it 's hard to believ that nobodi in that area recycl ani can at all , `` said janet foreman , recycl coordin . 
 is hard to see how the situat could be otherwis . 
 it 's veri hard to reconcil the two but the crusad , who were onc the jazz crusad , were also onc a fair formid band . 
 as a sluggish , uneven recoveri begin in the u.s. economi , wall street analyst say it benefit are especi hard to see in servic busi . 
 `` there 's been numer theft of ostrich and emus all over texa and georgia , and they re extrem hard to trace , `` said malcom wilk , a milam counti sheriff 's depart investig . 
 he conced that ani democrat will have a hard time beat bush . 
 it is hard to argu for peac from a seal room . 
 and as a man get older , boxer find it harder to keep in train . 
 yet peopl in the surround neighborhood have strong emot tie to each campus -- and each campus can be expect to draw vocifer support in a seri of public hear that start monday and are to culmin on feb. 28 with hard decis by the school board . 
 find a new job is hard , but more peopl are plant root in field where they lack experi . 
 what is hard is find a shortstop or catcher for less than five buck who wo n't hurt you. '' 
 although he acknowledg that conclus evid of discrimin is hard to find , lanto said the anecdot form a `` distress pattern '' uniqu to japanes compani . 
 it 's hard to believ that this compromis will be ani more durabl than the other propos sinc the foundat began to pursu a plan to add 45 , 000 squar feet to it clinic and research facil . 
 that was hard to get to , `` say erni piini of san jose , a retir electr engin who has seen 11 eclips in the past 20 year . 
 not ecstat , but with the justifi satisfact of someon who has achiev within 100 year more than his forebear dream of ; with the self-confid of someon who firm believ , even in time when it was veri hard inde to believ , that the day would come when the whole world -- includ our enemi -- would accept the realiti of israel . 
 most are easi to grow , but the task of transplant the desir nativ tree from the wood to your lawn can be a hard one . 
 land and labor cost add up quick , and , in the event of failur , it 's hard to convert the build into other use , eisenzimm said . 
 in the last two year , time have been hard ; everyon is on a downsw . 
 `` mental he 's fine , confid , play great , and it 's hard to do , but i think it 's good for him , `` la russa said . 
 what is much harder to replic and even more crucial is the under process technolog requir to make and constant improv new generat of product . 
 mr kennedi , howev , take offic at a time when problem are more subtl and the answer are harder to find . 
 tilburi said he has heard of some victim bid on home , but that has been primarili in the hill for hard-to-find three- and four-bedroom hous . 
 `` it 's hard to say whether there are more women be abus or whether there 's just a lot more awar and women know that we re here , `` lee-siegmann said . 
 a few specialti store ( such as tex 's toy in mountain view ) carri moon shoe , but they are hard to find . 
 `` i was complet fool , `` pat admit , not easi for a guy who 's been hard to fool for 62 year . 
 seven out of 10 municip predict that it would be harder for them to meet their financi need than it was last year . 
 so fewer , more inadequ prepar player are be ask to do a job that is harder to do than befor . 
 `` he is the hardest person in the leagu to guard , `` oliv said . 
 she dress nice , too -- heel and jew in the middl of the day at home , june cleaver-styl , which make it all the harder to pictur her root through the dumpster behind k mart . 
 `` it 's a gray area and it 's hard to defin . 
 after 17 month as a hostag , david jacobsen said the hardest thing to do was allow himself to be emot again -- particular with peopl he love . 
 there 's a fine line between stimul sale with new product and alien custom by put out too much product , as compani such as atari discov the hard way . 
 time may be hard but dream live on in the mind of the faith -- faith lotto player , that is . 
 caff verona is a hard place to pigeonhol , but do n't let that put you off . 
 it is hard and pain to believ , but perhap he realli think so . 
 also , fax modem softwar is almost alway harder to learn to use than a fax machin is . 
 of cours , presid sometim learn the hard way that deleg can be danger . 
 `` we have profession peopl on our staff to analyz the bid , and we ve been ask by the mayor to do that , `` he said , ad that legal liabil is hard to prove . 
 it would be hard to conceiv of three more differ presenc . 
 `` is it go to be hard for me ? '' 
 presid mikhail gorbachev has warn of a hard winter and urg the west to contribut food as his countri make the pain move from a central economi to a market system . 
 the secret itself was just as hard . 
 the shamir 's daili life write the decalogu , which is written on two plate , the hard fact of life , and all fact are `` one '' . 
 injuri asid , it 's hard at time for smaller school to field team in all the sport they 'd like to offer . 
 `` the thing about bill even then , `` marchibroda recal wednesday of their time togeth in baltimor , `` is that when you gave him some work , he never ask how hard is it or how long will it take . 
 and becaus the main republican just spent six year on the panel that overse the cia and other aspect of american spycraft , it 's hard to decid where fact end and fiction begin . 
 still , it 's hard to overlook nutrit . 
 from the south bay , it 's hard to know what to wear for a jaunt to the northeast corridor . 
 peopl do n't realiz how hard it was for me to miss wimbledon . 
 `` it 's hard to see how you effect carri them out if you do n't have a govern you can work with. '' 
 sometim the kremlin revolut was harder to follow than an old `` twin peak '' show . 
 `` it 's hard go back to a place you call home that 's a home no longer -- a place where you laid down roots. '' 
 sound bite : bo jackson still walk with crutch and lament about excruci slow of his recoveri from a hip injuri : ; `` mental , it 's hard becaus i 'm not abl to run yet , `` he say . 
 some may be hard to latch or unlatch , the nation highway traffic safeti administr said . 
 `` honest , it 's hard to keep track of all the litig that 's go on , `` said drew peck , who follow both compani for the secur firm donaldson , lufkin & jenrett . 
 it 's hard to see how . 
 `` it 's veri hard for me to get anyth done in the build , `` said demarcus , who has spent $ 310 alon on lunch with one staff person , mariann payn , sinc januari 1990 . 
 these are much harder to get -- just about imposs . 
 it 's hard to believ at first , but there realli are drawback to becom well-known . 
 the 16 year sinc he met landi have been the musician 's hardest , with wilson posit as a pawn in a battl for control between landi -- who has term himself brian 's `` good father '' -- and the beach boy camp , which is ask the court to appoint a legal conserv . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that the presid is go to have to make a decis on what kind of export condit are go be place on cheap work station , but it look like this is go to happen , `` said roszel thomsen ii , a washington lawyer who repres work station maker . 
 the giant end shawon dunston 's 14-game hit streak thursday , but pitcher may find it hard to stop his salari drive . 
 i am alway amaz that peopl are amaz that i actual cook from gourmet -- the common assumpt is that it is too hard and time-consum . 
 robert reitherman , a half moon bay-bas consult who recent complet a studi of a 1972 state law that effect prohibit build within 50 feet of an activ fault , said the new law would be much harder to implement becaus there 's less agreement among scientist about which area are subject to sever ground motion , liquefact or landslid than about the locat of fault . 
 `` it 's art and it 's hard to understand , `` oneal said . 
 but with so mani other offer similar appeal to viewer , it is hard to see how `` eddi dodd '' can win the final verdict of judg nielsen . 
 while some men may find her hard to take , her venom is rare direct at them . 
 `` it is hard to excus his blind fatalist view '' that the u.s. and the ussr would forev be mortal enemi lock in global struggl , bradley said , cite gate ' speech and classifi analys . 
 plus , it 'd be hard for the general to grant interview from washington , sinc he 's still on duti in the persian gulf . 
 but on the whole it is hard to imagin disast in which the victim ought to be better prepar financi to take care of themselv . 
 sinc we know what 's come , howev , it 's hard to focus much on this prelud . 
 but most research agre that the small , year-to-year fluctuat link to human activ would be hard to spot . 
 it 's hard to tell , `` hargrov said . 
 yes , one ( a boy ) did give me a hard time , in that he demand to know what rain was when i forbad him to go outsid . 
 there 's anoth slice of realiti as well , one that 's harder to cover up becaus the casualti are right here at home . 
 `` it 's hard when you practic run forward for a year and then start run backward again . 
 `` the no. 1 thing ( prospect contest ) say when they come here is , 'i ca n't believ how hard this test is , ' `` say harv selsbi , wheel contest coordin . 
 so funni , it 's hard to believ creator jay ward and bill scott , both of whom die in the 80s , did origin episod for onli three season , two on abc and one on nbc , in the late 50s and earli 60s . 
 three-year-old chip maker cyrix corp. is learn hard lesson at a veri young age . 
 `` it 's hard to know what you re up against without go in there . 
 it 's just too hard to do . 
 you build a list , complet with clue and phonet misspel of word : if your child has troubl spell `` difficult , `` give him a clue such as `` hard '' and misspel the word as `` dificult. '' 
 it is hard to imagin a better bargain in softwar . 
 it 's hard these day to pick a good day for an a 's pitcher to struggl , but sunday might have been the worst day for ron darl to lose his first game in an a 's uniform . 
 a congression aid said the north korean want a congression deleg to receiv the remain , as in an earlier exchang , but said such a high-rank group would be hard to conven each time remain are turn over . 
 what measur help the articl offer owner is hard to discern -- unless you have no desir to spend time compil name and rank player . 
 `` mayb the feder equival of sell your boat is to make some veri hard and sometim pain decis , reduc some of thing that are nice to have but ( you ) do n't need to have. '' 
 so i decid to stick to my own thing , but it 's hard to do my thing there. l.a. women are veri closet becaus of the industri ( pressur ) . 
 a few of the control are on the dashboard to the left of the steer wheel , which put them out of sight and make them hard to oper while drive . 
 `` it is extrem hard for ani athlet to be injur , `` say brick . 
 `` it 's veri hard for us to vote on this law . 
 bread is so good and everyth tast so much better here that it is hard not to eat too much '' , said the secretari ruefulli eye her extra pound . 
 there have been no report default involv the paper held by the tax-fre fund in their 10 year-plus histori , but it is harder to evalu credit qualiti for tax-fre fund than for taxabl fund , say russel e. long , assist vice presid for standard & poor 's mutual fund group in new york . 
 `` it will not be 54-0 , but it will be a hard game for them , `` lentz said . 
 if the fund rate is go to go all over the place , it make the job of tell much harder. '' 
 they may have stolen the item for a buyer who reneg on pay or may have decid the item would be too hard to sell , polic said . 
 it has been a hard road back but now , with plenti of polit ammunit given him by the govern in recent session , he is lead the opposit with skill and assur and is a match for the prime minist across the floor . 
 `` it 's a littl bit harder than it has been befor , ( but ) as long as there is a strateg aspect to it , ( allianc ) are move along as they have been in the past , `` said sanford robertson , found partner of robertson , stephen & co. , a san francisco invest bank firm . 
 time be hard , and distanc and expens outweigh fond sentiment , the regret are 100 percent . 
 yes , today 's a sad day and the day ahead will be harder day . 
 it 's hard to believ that neither matt nor furri would realiz that fli mission against the arab in a u.s.-mark f-15 , while the unit state is studious neutral , might have a disastr effect on nation polici . 
 it 's hard to say . 
 `` it 's hard to believ you could n't make some effort to consolid them and not save money , `` say brownstein . 
 this make life hard both for japan 's high-pay consum and foreign compani that face steep cost and other obstacl in break into the market . 
 in this rural communiti of 6 , 200 peopl , imperi food product was the biggest employ , and the 225 job it provid , most in the $ 5- to $ 5.50-an-hour rang , are hard to come by . 
 it is hard to see how trade pressur on one product could be interpret in china as a protest against non-trad relat human right abus . 
 the differ is , if they can call you a nazi and make it stick -- tough , realli hard . 
 sometim the hardest thing in the world to do is . . . huh ? 
 we made some hard choic . 
 the day of bull connor seem so remot now that it 's hard ( even for a son of the south who began cover sit-in in the summer of 1960 ) to recal the climat of offici and unoffici menac that king and his comrad and follow had to overcom . 
 it 's hard be a child star and have to grow up , but she and i understand each other and all about it. '' 
 sinc januari , howev , it has gotten harder to live the homeless life here . 
 but it is hard to deni that someth is go on . 
 it 's someth to hear it on tv , but it 's hard to cope with when you come into school and see that empti seat . 
 saddam is hard to remov in part becaus he and his follow came to power through a militari coup and are determin to keep other from follow the same blueprint . 
 while employ are reward the servic of persian gulf veteran , they might also rememb the longer , harder , loneli servic of vietnam veteran . 
 anoth user demand that 's like to outpac technolog is for better handwrit recognit , one of the hardest problem in pen comput . 
 but , second-guess anyway , it 's hard to fathom whi harri ' band , the nash rambler , was n't given more visibl in ad . 
 this is harder to prove , becaus the film hous still make money on the popcorn . 
 furtney said he found it hard to believ that sp could be accus of be uncoop in the 76 spill . 
 it is hard to gaug citi channel 's impact has becaus no audienc rate for the cabl station are avail . 
 he 's receiv ton of public for his achiev , and it 's hard to miss the mac format of his paper . 
 written by univers of north carolina hous professor michael stegman , the 144-page treatis conclud that `` privat public hous is not necessarili a bad idea , but it is veri cost , veri hard to do right and has veri limit application. '' 
 it 's go to be hard rais a daughter on my own , `` the woman said . 
 drive through the hill of oakland -- or saratoga , los alto , los gato -- in these year of drought , it was hard to resist a fleet thought : ; my god , what on earth would happen if a spark got loos on this land ? 
 democrat conced in advanc that the bitter fight over thoma would make it particular hard for them to get the 10 gop vote they would have need to prevail . 
 `` it would be real hard to write a job descript for special assist to the presid and general manag , which is willi 's formal titl , `` say the giant ' duffi jen . 
 the final step of her quest to becom a triathlet was the hardest . 
 it 's harder to extend your bodi when slide feet first . 
 the psycholog implic here are even harder to visual than small type . 
 this is the toughest lie to rebut , when one is out there on the cut edg , all alon with a stori we all found hard to believ . 
 `` my wife complain i should be out make money , but this has becom such an infatu thing , it 's hard not to do it all the time , `` said paul dupont , 48 . 
 it is hard to get agit about extravag parad dure a week when henri kissing play guest weatherman on the cbs morn show . 
 and becaus of the church 's architectur and locat , it 's hard to imagin a build in san jose that 's more import to preserv . 
 i felt -- i just -- it was just -- i mean , it 's hard for me to describ . 
 it was hard to find a jewish heroin -- `` a posit , well-balanc , success , admir jewish woman. '' 
 most hindus prefer the time-honor cremat by wood fire , although some find it hard to wit . 
 littl peopl , howev , -- like kyle , 10 , and daria , 3 1/2 -- are much harder to put asid . 
 `` it 's just hard to know what state larri will be in when he doe come back , if there is ani brain damag '' day said . 
 controversi legisl aim at make it harder for manufactur to control the sale and servic polici of discount retail clear a major hurdl wednesday when the senat vote 63-35 to cut off debat and bring the measur to a vote later this week . 
 it 's harder for minor non-profit group to say no when other donor stay away . 
 farmer , who depend on bee to pollin crop , and beekeep fear the african bee ' econom damag even more than their sting becaus they are hard to manag and devot much of their energi to swarm and creat new coloni . 
 chip hard to trace ; detect complain on one hand that there are no mark on the small chip that can be use to effect trace their origin ; and on the other , that the chip can wind up anywher in the world within hour . 
 school nutritionist say the shape program and individu school face mani obstacl that make serv a healthi lunch harder than it look , among them : ; ( box ) a fast-food generat of children so suscept to advertis that they wo n't eat food that doe n't look as though it came from mcdonald 's . 
 the manufactur warn you about this , but it 's hard to compens . 
 `` this action will put more american grain and other food into the pipelin now , so that it will arriv at it destin in time to be of assist dure the hard winter face the soviet peopl , `` bush said in a statement . 
 one of the hardest thing he 's face is lose some of his friend . 
 we ambiti , discont girl of 30 year ago had a hard time imagin how to imagin ourselv . 
 vote : 5-4 ; crimin : made it harder for n n n y y y y y y ; defend to make second feder ; appeal . 
 bombard by bad news , disturb by threat of terror , confound by an economi that has skid into recess and anger by elect offici who postur and pontif rather than step up to the hard question of deficit , ethic and account -- peopl are upset . 
 but the inevit of cheaper technolog and competit have made it harder to be envious of laser printer owner . 
 then the senat pass a budget resolut with a provis that would make it still harder to rais tax to pay for extens , and no one challeng that claus . 
 `` i had a hard time adjust to be a bench player , `` herr acknowledg . 
 was n't hard to understand . 
 the draft did n't seem particular encourag -- i grade it a b- , at best -- and the hardest thing to overcom in the nfl is a success of weak draft . 
 in either direct , the wild , wind-swept sceneri is so mesmer that it can be hard to keep your eye on the narrow road . 
 but while campus administr worri over spech code that place a civil framework around debat , it 's hard to find the debat . 
 despit this , it 's hard to imagin these tape will caus more than a rippl with anyon other than die-hard fan . 
 of all these uncertainti , the most serious and the hardest to fathom , in greenspan 's view , is the continu failur of bank to make loan to creditworthi custom . 
 we have a four-year deficit to make up and that 's hard to do with one good march . # 
 `` this recess has been especi difficult for media compani and particular hard on the second newspap compani in a market , `` buzzetta said . 
 but such reform are high unlik to pass , which show , for all of wilson 's appar bold , how hard it is to go back to the simpl , account form of govern onc consid commonplac . 
 but it is general agre that baker will have a harder time find new job in their field , and , if they do , the closest major bakeri is at least 35 mile away . 
 but it 's hard to tell whether his fellow senat are applaud his gift as an orat or his masteri over the pork barrel . 
 that could be easi to do in the 40-member senat , where the 26 democrat and one independ hold two-third of the vote , but much harder in the 80-member assembl , where the 47 democrat are seven vote short of a two-third margin . 
 `` but it will be harder for us to do that. '' 
 and in the end , it is hard to read this book without anger . 
 it 's harder to write about peter jen and tom brokaw . 
 `` the first semest was hard , but i realli tri . 
 the coach said he 'd never done anyth harder than what he was about to do . 
 arrest peopl might have been especi hard to do in the oakland fire , consid some author actual welcom some peopl who ignor the evacu order . 
 furthermor , the white hous bill would have offer state 3-for-1 fund for major highway but onli 2-for-1 for public transit , make highway hard for cash-starv state to turn down . 
 marc girardelli , a favorit along with tomba , fell on the first run , the victim of a hard and unusu slick cours . 
 if someon with a good imagin tri hard , he could have seen downtown san jose 's park avenu and almaden boulevard as 50 driveway court sunday . 
 worship leader are find it increas hard to wring money from church budget for serious music , becaus pastor and other member of the hierarchi are unsympathet , messer said . 
 time are hard in the advertis busi . 
 it is hard to imagin a loss so total that the discoveri of a mailbox , a broken teacup , a tomato plant send tear of joy stream down the face . 
 presid had set for himself the task , which he believ vital , of awaken the u. s. and it alli to the hard and complex effort necessari to shift that balanc . 
 well dug-in infantri are hard to destroy by aerial bombard . 
 like other averag famili , we have a hard time put away a few dollar everi month for our children 's colleg educ . 
 these requir call for almost superhuman self-restraint and magnanim on both side , and that will be hard to achiev if the physic segreg of the two race continu . 
 `` it seem to me we ve done the hardest part , `` said assemblywoman delain eastin , d-union citi . 
 after all , if exist downtown busi fail , they may be hard to replac : wit the pavilion 's problem rent space . 
 but while they are hard to spot , the chines pant do n't last long . 
 `` it 's realli hard to see anyth much below 9 percent . 
 find room for more kid is hard enough , but the locat of this far-flung develop add cost . 
 `` onc a kid is too far gone , it 's hard to put them back on the right track , `` lindsay said . 
 it 's hard to break this to you , guy , but volum control doe not sound like it 's your onli problem . 
 we just tri to make thing hard , `` said humphri . 
 phat nguyen , a vietnames field repres for heritag cablevis , learn this the hard way when he began track down local relat of the refuge tran had tape in the philippin . 
 `` it will be harder this semest but it will also allow us to see the immediaci of the issue. '' 
 men will to sail at all into water where wooden ship could be crush like egg were hard to find . 
 `` the farther we move , the harder the fight willbecom , `` predict lt. gen. walter boomer , command of the more than 30 , 000 u.s. marin who pour into kuwait on sunday . 
 i had a hard time accept that in my kid . 
 for me or ani woman listen , it can be veri hard sometimes. '' 
 nelson attempt to soften his remark wednesday , say , `` pete play onli two minut , so it was hard for him to look good , but , of cours , we lose the game if i do n't get him out of there. '' 
 -- mitch richmond ; `` this was the hardest trade i ve ever made . 
 gorbachev is not the onli soviet offici prove hard to reach . 
 `` you re go to have to learn the hard way '' was someth els my parent told me . 
 it 's hard to rememb a time of so much confus on the state of the economi and the financi market . 
 good number of steelhead are hold , but they are extrem hard to catch . 
 air forc specif call for the new plane to have about doubl the rang of the f-15 fighter , which it replac , and be more maneuver and harder for enemi radar to detect . 
 he 's found it hard to be both a mother and a father to his highway . 
 brett butler caution that there are near 100 game remain , but it is hard for him to ignor the fact . 
 the hard part is find out who did it. '' 
 ( hbox ) ; if fresh fish is hard to find , frozen fish of good qualiti is tasti prepar this way . 
 san francisco , like other citi , has had to instal bus-stop seat that have been engin so that they are hard to sleep on . 
 whoever is take the plant -- and wherev they end up -- the bottom line is that it 's veri hard for homeown and other to protect their plant from snatcher . 
 it is a book that tri veri hard to stay ground in number , a sensibl book whose goal is to tell us when we re be silli . 
 `` they say the world out there is hard , `` said sen. jay rockefel , d-w.va. , chairman of the nation commiss on children . 
 detmer hedg when ask to critiqu his perform -- `` it 's hard to rate on a person basi when you have 10 other guy out there , `` he said -- but was happi that the cougar open against the no. 1 team . 
 i maintain if peopl do n't have the mean to support whatev children they have , have anoth will onli make thing harder . 
 it is hard to imagin how to patch hole when they run through the foundat of your life . 
 `` even if georg bush would like to play it both way , he 's go to find it much harder to get away with , `` said wendi sherman , execut director of emili 's list , a fund-rais group for democrat women who support abort right . 
 are give their doctor a hard time . 
 the reason presid avoid the subject is obvious , accord to ami davi , an econom historian at purdu univers : `` onc you predict a recess it is not hard for it to becom a self-fulfil prophecy. '' 
 `` it 's harder to turn negat percept into posit than the other way around. '' 
 i got off , cross the squar , and on the side direct opposit the gate found a good restaur , hard to come by in this part of the citi . 
 it 's hard to be there and not play . 
 some lawyer said the wilson propos would make it harder for women to get job . 
 figur were hard to come by , said one of the report 's three author , william arkin . 
 it is veri hard to pick up these littl piec of candi without smear the furnitur . 
 `` unless he has had a chang in his think about forestri , `` young said , `` we re have a hard time think we will go to the tabl . 
 the plan , file wednesday with the feder bankruptci court in new york , would forc the maker of steel and aerospac equip to auction part of it oper just as buyer may be hard to find . 
 there 's so much go on backstag it 's hard to tell . 
 with the constant shift on the 49er ' offens line , it was hard to know what to expect . 
 but i thought you said properti trade are a good way for an owner to get rid of hard-to-sel incom properti . 
 yet despit the dead pound his former countrymen are take now , khazzoom find it hard to muster much sympathi for them or iraq . 
 although american troop -- men and women -- were deploy to the persian gulf in august , essenti still were hard to come by as late as januari . 
 it was hard to figur her . 
 to be fair , it 's hard to describ ani tv game show on paper , no matter how clever and divert it may be , and not make it sound idiot . 
 actual it has been out for a few month , but i did n't look at it right away becaus of how littl i like wordperfect on the pc ( it 's power but hard to use ) and becaus of the bad memori of wordperfect 1.0 for the mac . 
 even the kennedi clan would have a hard time keep up with this type of disgrac behavior . 
 it is not just that in the middl of a revolut it is hard to predict the futur . 
 i was go to say that sometim the hardest thing in the world to do is get a good night 's sleep . 
 `` the hardest thing about that is keep my grade up. '' 
 on the tape , most of the guest are off-camera and it is hard to tell whether they fought back . 
 they went to nusseibeh , 41 , one of the west bank 's senior , most sophist polit leader , to ask him some `` hard question '' about his current polit view . 
 `` it 's hard to see one of the guy go , `` he said . 
 now come the hard part : comparison shop among lender to get the best loan . 
 if loan coven are bent or broken , you may be in for a hard time that get progress wors . 
 ani deal could prove hard to consumm becaus one member of the ethic panel -- sen. jess helm , r-n.c. -- appear unlik to go along . 
 1987 cabernet sauvignon , columbia valley : sweet cherri aroma ; full-bodi , live , soft , without a hard tannic edg ; $ 14 . 
 what 's so hard about write 120 page of most white space ? 
 `` and , if you ca n't get someon to complain , it 's hard to start ani action against these kind of bar , `` he said . 
 `` good babi sitter are hard to find , are n't they ? '' 
 with fresh , quick-cook pasta wide avail , it 's hard to find mani quicker dish . 
 vincent said `` it 's hard to convinc peopl there are financi problem , `` given the huge tv contract basebal sign last year and the four-year , $ 21 million contract that the red sox gave pitcher roger clemen last week . 
 `` america has flung itself again into one of those spasm of passion moral debat that nation more toler of human frailti find so hard to understand , `` the sunday time of london said sunday in a report that carri the headlin `` talk dirty. '' 
 his basic messag : crack is not as hard as it seem to an outsid , and it often goe undetect by legitim user of `` crack '' comput . 
 but it will also be a littl harder becaus citi and counti offici opt not to build a bypass for express train . 
 but if the 49er do n't win their next two game , against the ram and raider , you can bet it will be much harder to believ . 
 sometim it 's hard to fit the piec of a soap-opera plot togeth . 
 and economist suspect it will be harder than in previous recess to get consum back into store and auto showroom . 
 kellar said that the general public has a hard time relat to footbal player ' athlet gear . 
 `` it is hard to know whether he is accommod the white hous or if this is just the sensibl thing to do , `` say allan meltzer , an economist at carnegie-mellon univers in pittsburgh and a longtim fed-watch . 
 but attorney warn that becaus antitrust violat are so hard to prove , the vast major of these suit are won by the defend . 
 if you need to cash out befor the matur date , they could be hard to sell , and you might lose money if you are forc to sell at the wrong time . 
 a former player said , `` it 's not hard to switch . 
 `` the hardest part about learn a languag is express yourself in it , `` green said . 
 the hardest thing for children ( and adult ) to get use to in this system is that it is not base on the usual 0-100 rang , as is the system of percent , for exampl . 
 `` it 's hard to compar the defend . 
 `` i just have a real hard time with us tell everyon what to do to stay safe and how to do it , `` she said . 
 but an editor 's note said that in some place where mani parti member are religi believ `` it 's hard to get . . . member togeth . . . ( for ) meet . 
 `` if you re not from a high incom bracket , it 's veri hard , `` said lauvinia , a nurs who work from midnight to 8 a.m. at kaiser hospit in hayward , where her husband also work . 
 it 's hard to take denni the menac that serious . 
 `` it 's been real hard , but you got to keep go , `` lopez said . 
 `` everybodi recogn it would be a lot harder to move while the diplomaci is go on , `` an offici remark thursday . 
 but the nativ flame is hard to snuff . 
 `` two- and three-year-old are hardest , `` hope say . 
 it 's a littl hard to have a rivalri when the all-tim seri consist of one game play 39 year ago . 
 it 's hard to believ singleton is onli push 24 . 
 in fact , he will have a hard time fulfil ani of his campaign goal as long as the rest of the council continu to strive for high-dens hous along transport corridor and a high-profil downtown . 
 it 's hard to function understand that the principl of man-to-man work no matter what . 
 eagl redux ; `` it 's hard to deni peopl like the beat of just plain rock , `` add olson . 
 `` he had a veri hard time deal with it . 
 those item are go to be hard to find and they re go to get expensive. '' 
 and it 's hard to ignor the debt from the buyout , a burden onli made heavier by the nationwid real estat slump . 
 today was hard to swallow , `` welch said . 
 saddam possibl could re-emerg as a region power , but sure it will be far harder for him to rearm than it was to arm . 
 but sudden , which two has becom a question he may find hard to answer . 
 his book , which do not even explain how to win a war , are hard to find and even more difficult to read . 
 the sophomor jinx ; `` in a way the second movi is harder than the first becaus there is that pressur to do as well or to do better , `` hain say on a fast lunch break at the cbs-mtm studio . 
 so it can be argu that it should n't be much harder for today 's player to deviat from the statist norm as dramat as dimaggio or william did in 41 . 
 price fluctuat make it hard to set it earli . 
 lucill ball found out the hard way ; likewis mari tyler moor , sever time . 
 costa quick apolog , claim the champagn in his eye and juanita 's white cap made it hard to see in the locker room . 
 `` it 's like read a book ; it 's hard for me to relat . 
 but the accept of farm-rais venison is hard to gaug becaus of what some in the industri call the `` bambi factor , `` mean the reluct of some american to eat deer , sometim perceiv , not as a food sourc , but as a cudd woodsi creatur . 
 browning-ferri industri , which serv the area , has a varieti of rate for those on fix incom and resid of hard-to-serv area . 
 sometim the slight is so ambigu or unintent that it is hard to confront . 
 there were a few peopl in the bar , elder , well-off , artist , who , you felt , had made a hard bargain for give up . 
 `` it 's aw hard to scrape dime and quarter off the bottom . 
 it 's not hard , and it get easier with a littl practic . 
 but boroff said it would n't have been hard to prove pointer capabl of child neglect . 
 regardless , it 's hard to believ the paint would offend anyon . 
 they just have a swing lifestyl that make it hard for more than one youngster to hang on . 
 the door : this may be music to the ear of those of you like geneviev sheffer , who wrote to say she has stop go to the fremont main librari by herself becaus the front door are too hard to open . 
 would be his hardest year , she knew , and he miss his father desper . 
 exact figur are hard to come by , but unit airlin estim that this year it will carri more than 100 , 000 unaccompani minor . 
 `` i 'm a christian and a cathol and i realli believ that , and it is requir of me to forgiv no matter how hard that is , and i am determin to do that. '' 
 `` it 's hard to believ it 's gone on so long , `` said monday , 29 , one of three bay area relat of hostag taken in beirut . 
 mark foster , a polici analyst for consum action , a san francisco consum advocaci group , said the appoint will `` make our work that much harder. '' 
 ask how mani other offici of his rank , at the peak of the chines polit system , still believ in marxism , he said : `` it 's hard to say , but probabl veri few . 
 even on a small-scal michelin map , marnoz is hard to find . 
 i trust him and am sure noth sexual is go on but i do feel threaten by that woman and find their friendship hard to accept . 
 there is a shortag of child care in the state , and low-incom famili would find it that much harder to find afford care . 
 `` we ve alway known some of the circl were hoax , but i find it hard to believ two men could have creat hundr of these circl , which often appear on the same night in wide differ part of the country. '' 
 traffic engin stress that the plan is onli a list of option , and that politician will have to make the hard choic . 
 had a hard time make him understand that it was farouk she wish to meet . 
 said edberg : `` beat john on grass is alway go to be hard . 
 `` they ve come up with so mani big kick it 's hard to say a bad word about the field-goal unit. '' 
 i 'm sure it will be hard for him to leav after 14 year at nbc , but he ought to do it befor it 's too late and the studio stop call . 
 one of the hardest element for outsid to understand is the relationship between saddam and the peopl he rule , analyst say . 
 it 's hard to tell if a stori happen in this odd littl film , but an offic romanc may be take place : `` pssst ! 
 there are hard question rais by peopl of conscienc : ; was the conflict a war or a massacr ? 
 is hard not to lay most of the blame for their failur on the pope . 
 the central messag is nice sum up in a quot from poet e.e. cum : `` to be nobodi but yourself in a world which is do it best , night and day , to make you into everybodi els , is to fight the hardest fight a man can fight , and never stop fighting. '' 
 after a hard day 's night in a british court , appl comput inc. and appl corp decid to come togeth and settl a 2-year-old case pit the comput giant against the beatl . 
 -- gari l. bailey ; sunnyval ; overwork plagu the silicon valley ; the parallel to silicon valley execut is not hard to follow in `` japan fear epidem of death from overwork '' ( mercuri news , june 2 ) , but is a word to the wise suffici ? 
 ( check ) `` girl with babi do n't tend to get much respect -- it 's hard to date with a kid , `` say willean lockett who expect her second child in juli . 
 in the face of general admiring-to-glow review , iannon took on `` middl passag '' and conclud that it was `` hard to take ( johnson 's ) prize-win book serious as literature. '' 
 andi mutch , assist curat of the u.s. golf associ librari , say `` it is hard to prove , but it seem like a logic conclusion. '' 
 it is hard to believ that wast form with tube and needl invad his bodi is the same man . 
 the substanc of a success negoti , the give-and-tak need to make it work , is still hard to envisag . 
 pentagon spokesman pete william said , `` it 's veri hard to control the flow of cash onc they start to sell oil. '' 
 a parapleg park ranger and his climb partner are find their ascent of yosemit 's half dome a littl harder than they expect and will take an extra day to complet the climb . 
 it 's still hard to tell . 
 hammer said asian power was hard to achiev becaus asian neighborhood are general more dispers than hispan neighborhood . 
 the sweet smell of a free meal is hard to ignor . 
 social servic tend to be fragment , uncoordin , hard to access , overlap , bureaucrat . 
 there are mikhail and vladimir and bori and all sort of peopl with name we onc consid hard to pronounc . 
 problem hard to curb ; q your may 4 item pertain to public street and park is of particular interest to me . 
 truth is , it 's a lot harder than you think . 
 `` i thought it was as hard a trip as we ve ever taken . 
 it 's hard to make sleaz sound genuin , but korder doe . 
 that 's hard to believ -- but never should have been an issu . 
 this is harder work than cover with plastic . 
 the mani voic provid a `` you-are-ther '' effect that 's hard to match with ani structur . 
 sooth tune ; besid , if you do n't believ they re real , it 's hard to take the rest of the turtl lore serious , or to believ that the turtl have ditch their violent crime-fight imag in favor of more peac conflict resolut . 
 even if kevin doe play , it 's go to be hard for him to step back in and pick it up where he left off. '' 
 `` we could but it would be hard. '' 
 valuabl land ; `` it 's hard to build a cost-effici hotel that 's two stori . . . the land is worth a lot more , `` he said . 
 that can lead to an injuri that sidelin someon for week , even month , and get back in shape can be that much harder . 
 well this would be 100 time harder , `` said the offici , who estim the armi would have to send ten of thousand of soldier into baghdad . 
 it 's hard to say what 's exact behind all this . 
 `` it make it harder to move. '' 
 the hard way of peac . 
 in the dark , or even at dusk , it would be hard to tell them apart . 
 some think it wo n't make much differ in their ski , while other fear that it will make the ski hard to control . 
 with each pass day , that goal has becom harder to achiev . 
 `` as a result we have to sometim make hard decisions. '' 
 we recent had a hard time choos between the southwestern meat loaf on grill sourdough with jalapeno gravi ( $ 6 ) or the grill eggplant sandwich with roast pepper and pepper-jack chees ( $ 5.50 ) . 
 the m.o. was n't hard to deduc . 
 `` it 's veri hard to describ the feel parent get when we see our children , `` daniel said . 
 for the general populac , it might be hard to pictur run back roger craig in anyth other than a 49er uniform . 
 it 's how hard it will be to go back to biospher 1. '' 
 still , ideal is hard to maintain in the face of constant discourag -- and smith is sever discourag , time after time . 
 seem like that the indian python come out ahead becaus record of it growth have been made more care and frequent ; it respond except well to captiv and doe not reach proport that make it hard to keep . 
 `` but there will be anoth group that will march , `` she said , `` and when they do , it 's hard to say if there 's anyth they wo n't say. '' 
 -- d.k. , san jose ; a spider mite are hard to control . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that soviet politician do n't resort to dirti tricks. '' 
 `` but other will identifi with the old way of run the busi and find it hard to change. '' 
 japan , which feel the american are use debt forgiv to reward certain nation , complain that this polici encourag irrespons and make say no to other countri with similar problem much harder . 
 that young gun refer is hard to escap when look at monday night 's season open between the 49er and giant at the meadowland . 
 i wo n't be concern myself with his or the troop ' moral becaus , frank , the choic he and other like him have made is make it damn hard to maintain my own . 
 it 's hard to imagin -- at least on his part . 
 `` it 's kind of hard place a valu on it by describ it . 
 some analyst said the incid could make it harder for the two side to agre on a $ 2 billion standbi loan . 
 it 's hard to anticip your need for medic care , so buy the broadest polici you can afford . 
 `` the cours is just hard , `` he said . 
 some morn , caught in the sting , cold rain that pelt northern arkansa in march , it has been hard to make out the simpl metal plate that mark steve mason 's burial ground . 
 hammer 's home is v-shape -- somewhat like a stealth bomber -- and it 's hard to see from the flatland becaus of it low profil . 
 like a lot of those young kid out there , he 's have a real hard time function , `` she said . 
 despit the luxuri appoint , it 's not hard to find some downright cheap thing about this car , such as a flimsi sunroof cover and a consol box panel that pop out to reveal the gear below . 
 now come the hard part . 
 volunt may be hard to come by owe to the lure of actual combat and the uncertainti of the futur with a new-fangl devic . 
 that make me the last network radio comic in america , hard though that may be to believe. '' 
 though life is hard , he add , it has improv sinc the state loosen it grip and allow free enterpris like his own to spread . 
 even though it design is not particular revolutionari , a prospect purchas , until recent , had to search long and hard to find such a piec . 
 `` they have n't bottom out yet , `` she said , `` and it 's hard to say when they will. '' 
 `` it 's veri hard , in my opinion , to achiev fair balanc . 
 privat , giant offici have said they are skeptic about work with santa clara and say the citi 's staff and council were extrem hard to deal with last year . 
 the home stretch : this last month of the season hold so much promis that it 's hard to restrain yourself -- from yawn . 
 in the januari survey , peopl who said job are hard to find outnumb those who said they are n't by 3 to 1 . 
 while this tendenc make it hard for compani to keep secret , it great facilit the transmiss of idea that sometim lead to new product or compani . 
 it 's hard to rememb turner as all-purpos buffoon , but he was . 
 howi had favour a bolt but this would have been hard to stage , so he fell back on a stroke . 
 `` you can teach the short game , but it 's hard to teach length . 
 `` the citi of fremont is larger now , and it 's harder to get from here to there if someon need to get to a doctor . 
 alleg question ; one u.s. offici , who insist on anonym , said , `` if someon is serious about the jesuit case and had credibl evid about the case , it 's hard to understand whi they would wait until the second anniversari of the death and releas that evid to the media , rather than turn that evid over as quick as possibl to the judg in this case , who has proven his commit to prosecut whoever has been accused. '' 
 there was a moment of silenc , hard to break . 
 of cours , it 's hard to put an exact dollar valu on land if no one make a direct profit from it . 
 ( `` that 's the hardest thing to teach , `` she sighs. ) 
 `` it 's veri hard to imagin that thing like this can happen in the unit states. '' 
 it 's hard to lose your friend . 
 about 10 polit prison in northeastern china are plan a hunger strike unless the prison author stop beat them and forc them to work 14-hour day on a diet of hard bread and veget , a chines person who has been brief on their circumst say . 
 lap-top screen use lightweight technolog that eat up as littl power as possibl -- and therefor are dimmer , smaller and harder to read than desk-top display . 
 `` the presid say we re not in a recess , `` he said , `` but i ve had a hard time believ that when 80 percent of our client are tell us that busi is lousy. '' 
 sometim it 's hard to figur out what they want. '' 
 `` the import thing is to make the test for the oper 's licens harder . 
 `` and i find it hard to believ she could be anywher for three year without tri to make contact , `` say sharon , who carri a cellular telephon with her for near a year wherev she went . 
 `` it 's hard to sustain cattl without bring in food and it 's a veri expens oper . 
 `` it 's alway harder to get a big guy , `` said offens coordin mike holmgren . 
 `` the new yorker and peopl from new jersey find it hard to settl down and relax , `` she said . 
 it 's veri hard for travel agent to sell organ tour in america to american . 
 have use the full forc of his fieri oratori to reject ani fundament chang , it is hard to imagin how he can adjust at this late date to the new soviet order . 
 it 's hard to see from the bottom , but it 's all too easi to hear : the lab is home to a dozen dog . 
 everyth ride on a veri small portion of his anatomi , which is veri hard to control. '' 
 on the day after independ day , when the biggest traffic jam was trigger by `` termin 2 '' and the toughest toiler in town were regga rocker at the san jose america festiv , it was hard to be a work stiff while everybodi els play . 
 thus his form have becom bunch , with knobbl case and cleft hard to read anatom , and with lean stumpi extrem . 
 `` i have a hard time watch , so i decid , whi should he have all the fun ? `` 
 it 's not too hard to understand whi the men of the u.s. senat did n't grasp the import of anita hill 's reluct charg against clarenc thoma : histor in washington , d.c. , women are one of the perk that go with the power . 
 `` it 's hard to justifi the kind of money we make . 
 `` that 's what make it so hard to listen to , `` she say . 
 tourist plan to stop in on the world 's fair will find room hard to come by . 
 when the govern start whine about how hard it is to make end meet , it 's natur to sneer and grab hold of your wallet . 
 and one of the hardest is what to do about career plan when both wife and husband are on a fast track . 
 `` this has been the hardest 12 month of my busi career , `` wright said as he began the tape session . 
 if all we learn from the palm beach trial is that rape is a terribl thing and a hard crime to prove , we have also learn veri littl . 
 simpli delici ; it was so good it 's hard to believ it was so simpl . 
 but between the drought and the shell burst , he said , ranch has gotten harder than ever . 
 they are convinc non-human , exceed clever and even -- the hardest trick -- quit funni . 
 by the end saturday , it was hard to tell the differ . 
 `` it 's just hard for me to believe. '' 
 what 's so hard about make a pim ? 
 it seem a strang custom and it was hard to see for what purpos a man would troubl to make himself rich , if he could not buy more women with his rich . 
 onc that happen , it 's a lot harder to lie about it than it use to be . 
 undoubt belden was rememb when bread and meat were hard for him to come by , that period in 1841 when he cross the plain as a member of the bidwell-bartleson parti , the first overland emigr train to california . 
 in the 1990s , they re like to be hard to avoid . 
 i would say i was go to be late to the ballpark or not take bat practic , and if they did n't like it , it was , well i 'm out of here or i ll fight you on it. ' ; `` now if i am go to be late , i call , i say i have had a hard day around the hous and i want to save the rest of the energi i have for the game. '' 
 in wilson 's propos shift of discret over certain program to the counti and to local voter , it 's sometim hard to distinguish philosoph convict from fiscal necess , and even harder to predict how the counti ( or the voter ) will use that discret . 
 or valu conflict may make it hard for manag to do what they know is right for the busi . 
 for barney i think it 's even harder ; there 's a differ kind of stress . 
 i spoke to the head home economist at the usda hot line , susan conley , who said the hardest part of the job is advis peopl that , becaus of improp prepar , their turkey should be use for someth other than dinner , such as landfil . 
 not too tight , you will n't get away with do this just onc , you ll onli make it hard to undo again . 
 some airlin have found it hard to compli with some of the rule . 
 they are often hard to erect and clumsi to carri . 
 that 's veri hard to believ . 
 taxicab , especi in the downtown area , are hard to find . 
 but peopl subscrib to hbo probabl are n't do it becaus of the intermitt sport program , and that make it hard to argu for earli morn or even afternoon coverag . 
 the flour tortilla , plastic-bag and kept warm , had gotten a littl hard around the edg . 
 a lot of them irrit my eye and make it hard for me to breath . 
 `` it 's hard to think about life without volleybal , `` beckenhauer-hel said . 
 we were a rock band on one hand , but there 's someth that happen when you put four girl on stage in miniskirt , there 's sort of a vibe about it that 's hard to control . 
 but evid for such claim has been hard to come by , in part becaus of fear that public complaint from u.s. compani would prompt japanes equip maker to retali . 
 i have move to texa and it is harder and more expens for me to continu call the ftb . 
 depardieu 's would-b poet and noiret 's all-lov philosoph are particular hard to take . 
 the former 49er coach , honor at a dinner saturday night as an outstand alumnus of san jose state , alway was abl to make hard decis about tell a player his time in the nfl had run out . 
 the reason laptop comput have to be the size of notebook is becaus it 's hard to figur out how to put hand on a keyboard that 's ani smaller . 
 to be honest , it 's hard to feel like a no-nonsens , take-charg kind of parent when you re sit at a tini desk that look like it was made in santa 's workshop . 
 `` it was hard to see him like that , `` said center jess sapolu , who join a larg group of 49er and eagl in a reggi white-l prayer session on the field after the game end . 
 `` i understand preemi have a hard time under the best of conditions. '' 
 now come the hard part : creat a stabl and prosper societi on the ruin of the old totalitarian order . 
 `` it 's veri hard to improv tetri , but it 's veri easi to spoil the game , `` pokhilko say , note that idea for chang it are consid and discard everi day . 
 it 's hard not to like tina turner 's `` the bitch is back , `` and o'connor could make a live on tribut album alon . 
 usual not too hard to sell worker on this as it give them longer holiday period . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to say what will happen in term of addit servic becaus we ve got to get the servic up and run , `` said caltran spokesman jim drago . 
 percept and stereotyp are hard to dispel . 
 from what i hear , blush , virgin young thing are hard to find in hollywood . 
 ( box ) microwav method : smaller turkey ( less than 12 pound ) may be cook in the microwav , but it is hard to even cook larger bird . 
 last season 's loss was especi hard to swallow becaus irvington ( 1-1 ) was come off it first victori in three season when it surpris the charger , who finish 2-8 . 
 `` it 's harder to get the obes out to begin exercis than the woman who is not obes , `` bagwel said . 
 when you lose ground like that , it make it hard . 
 `` it 's one of those thing hard to explain . 
 when i was an undergradu at stanford in the earli 80s , one of the hardest class to get into in the english depart was a seminar call american live . 
 it make it hard to do some of the thing i 'd like to do here becaus of it , `` dunn said . 
 when he 's struggl , it 's hard to pitch him a lot. '' . 
 that make it hard for team to play you . 
 vow to veto ; the legisl is design to overturn five 1989 suprem court decis that made it harder for women and minor to win job-discrimin lawsuit . 
 `` i would n't want to discourag anyon from tri the sport , but after you play for the first few time , it 's hard to find oppon becaus your abil to play chang so dramat , `` he said . 
 although local reject rate are not immedi avail , agent work with south bay minor home buyer say that the studi prove someth they experi regular -- subtl and harder-to-prov form of discrimin . 
 armi women , like their counterpart in the marin , had a hard time find sanitari napkin . 
 `` it 's hard go in favored. '' 
 and it is hard to think of the poor slob who sit twice a day in bumper-to-bump traffic along 101 as the spot owl of silicon valley . 
 but this year in hard econom time , onli 42 percent of the school 's graduat have found job . 
 but if she has a hard time imagin how this could lead to the discombobul you describ , she nevertheless appreci the practic wisdom of your suggest and is happi to pass it on . 
 to his credit , van poppel seem eager to absorb some hard lesson and everyon say he has improv . 
 we did it the hard way , score everyth with two out , but that show the charact of the team. '' 
 for one thing , wagner conced that a teknekron start-up 's characterist eight- to 15-year gestat period is hard for a giant to abid . 
 the love affair between alic and erik , so immedi and miracul , is harder to accept than the premis that a young woman regular becom a wolf . 
 if an execut in a tradit male job , an attract woman tend to have a harder time win recognit and promot . 
 consid the willing of extortionist to use terror tactic , it 's not hard to understand whi so mani peopl are apprehens . 
 i also have arthriti in my left hip , which make it doubli hard for me to reach my custom at time . 
 is dull busi , detect , and hard on feet . 
 the combin of those thing are hard to find . 
 that 's pretti much what you have to tell these pitcher and it 's hard to do. '' 
 sinc gregori was a toddler grow up in leatherwood , va. , it has been hard to keep him off stage . 
 ( box ) more than 40 percent said it was hard to reach the cabl compani on the phone . 
 it was hard to ascertain who was the most ineffect for the cardin -- the offens , defens , kick game , coach ? 
 `` most beginn say the hardest thing about the sport is hold your breath , but it 's all mental -- you burn up a lot of air with the anxiety. '' 
 still , he has a hard time express whi he will left the academi and is jeopard a comfort lifestyl for a chanc to start a soviet telecommun firm . 
 it 's hard to imagin a bridg that would be more import in the day follow a quak . 
 `` now , israel may face someth it has n't face befor -- a unit arab approv of a peac confer they may find hard to resist , `` a senior administr offici said . 
 unless an agreement is work out soon , the citi may have to make some hard choic about how mani trip it can provid to critic ill patient , she said . 
 but be the first one in your neighborhood to visit this forlorn place , it 's hard not to write home about it . 
 do you feel it 's hard to keep in touch with old friend ? 
 `` this is veri hard for them . 
 `` i just find it hard to believ there are still 400 extra peopl hang around cbs in the fifth year of the stewardship of larri tisch. '' 
 it relentless cheeri tone make it a cloy read for one sit , but it 's hard to beat as a browser . 
 that 's hard to say after onli two week . 
 anyon look on would be hard put to see the downturn . 
 typic , the comput belong to a corpor or the govern and is consid in crack circl to be hard to penetr . 
 the issu of low wage for janitor is much harder to solv . 
 it effort includ a custom survey to find out what was realli hard to understand in the tax code , form , etc . 
 dr. robert huizenga said that the multipl tumor in alzado 's brain have shrunk and becom hard to see on x-ray after two `` cours '' of chemotherapi treatment at the ucla medic center . 
 it is hard to imagin 125 , 000 dead and million of homeless in the unit kingdom receiv such scant attent so soon after the fact , or the american public toler the shortag of news coverag we are experienc . 
 `` as resid manag , it 's hard for me to imagin a full-fledg research facil without an airfield attach to it , `` compton said . 
 `` these kind of incid would be hard for us to find with a random check of their record , `` framiglio said . 
 mani spot are hard to remov if they re allow to `` set . 
 `` the hard part is over . 
 `` that 's hard to do becaus i 'm still a kid as far as physic is concern . 
 my husband had a hard time hold back the tear when he read it , and so did i . 
 but the money save is hard to count -- who know if the babi might have requir more hospit , or the 3-year-old wo n't need special educ becaus of parent stimul and head start -- and it 's save in the futur . 
 if you punch down the dough rough , it will becom elast again and hard to shape into a loaf . 
 french and italian bread , when slice thin and toast tend to becom too hard and crumbl . 
 it 's hard to tell if the claim is true , becaus these are veri tini insect . 
 sure , it 's possibl for peopl to forget about the camera and go about their busi , but it 's hard to watch someth as intim as a phone call to a hoped-for birth parent by an adopt child and not feel like an intrud . 
 but it was hard for anyon close to the pow to approach normalci with this week 's whirlwind event . 
 gregori sawer , an analyst at the new york financi research firm sanford c. bernstein & co. , said mci 's chief competitor , american telephon & telegraph co. and u.s. sprint , would have a hard time match mci 's promot becaus their computer bill system are not as sophist . 
 a well , a budget agreement , peopl know instinct if not by hard lesson learn , repres a great deal of sound and furi and littl els . 
 still , it 's hard to recal ani parti to a santa clara counti labor disput that has been as contempt as the servic employe intern union in it current effort to establish a union at shine build mainten , a san jose janitori compani . 
 but it 's hard to find much good news out there. '' 
 also , the amigo 's design make it aw hard for an adult to reach the back seat . 
 it was someth harder to name , restless and self-involv . 
 he could make it easi for her , or make it compar hard . 
 nevertheless , okazaki sympath with griffith , say the state did n't alloc enough money for the project , and `` it 's hard to pleas everyone. '' 
 dr. solomon 's is just too hard to use . 
 with congress control by democrat , that will be hard for bush to do . 
 pork is one of the hardest food to digest . 
 `` it 's hard work for him at his age , `` his sponsor , le huu dan , translat . 
 that instant cut the valu of invest in build up to 20 percent , throw margin develop into bankruptci and ad hard-to-sel asset to bank balanc sheet . 
 besid , it 's hard not to have some fun wear a gorilla mask , say frida . 
 unfortun , the display is hard to read , the batteri do n't last long enough , the processor is about to be obsolet ( new machin introduc last month have faster processor or processor that extend batteri life ) , and the whole thing weigh a coupl of pound too much . 
 the legisl began as an effort to overturn a seri of suprem court decis make it harder for minor and women to win job-discrimin lawsuit . 
 hosin said he had a hard time convinc his parent the situat was serious enough to warrant leav . 
 `` i know this is go to be hard , `` he said . 
 sinc her juli blackout , she -- like thousand of california motorist in similar circumst -- learn the hard way about the depart of motor vehicl ' littl known system that requir doctor to report to state offici the patient they have treat for laps of conscious . 
 the european observatori statement said the chanc of an object hit the relat small halley nucleus seem `` extrem remot , `` and it is hard to see how such an event could lead to the relat steadi outflow of dust observ . 
 but common sens indic that tree that have had a hard time , especi the citrus tree , would be unabl to combat a whitefli invas . 
 ( check ) it would also nullifi other u.n. resolut after iraq 's full withdraw , make it harder to enforc technolog and militari embargo against iraq , allow it to rebuild it arm forc in the futur . 
 but it 's hard to keep win by play that game , expert say . 
 `` it 's hard know the success they re have , `` richmond said , `` and i 'm not have ani at all , to tell you the truth . 
 not write will be hard . 
 `` the tough thing is , it 's hard to find a big back with those qualiti , `` nunnelli said . 
 the union want the compani to recogn it outright , without an elect , a legal tactic union have embrac recent becaus they say new labor law make it harder for them to win tradit elect drive . 
 that 's the hardest thing to deal with more than anyth becaus i love him veri much , `` said gama . 
 `` i have a hard time understand how you can signal befor you get to the bottom of the pile. '' 
 i learn this the hard way . 
 `` it 's a hard way to grow up , have a name like that , `` he said . 
 from the februari day that the shark unveil their uniform jersey , retail have had a hard time keep merchandis bear the team 's color and logo on the shelf . 
 here in the south bay , one of the hardest dream to chang is the single-famili hous . 
 admir goal all , even if it 's hard to tell what the result will be . 
 and this past spring , santa clara valley water district offici adopt a 25 percent averag cutback -- requir a 30 percent reduct in the summer and 15 percent in the winter , when it 's harder to conserv . 
 craig was refer to the new astrodom configur that make it harder to hit homer to left and right . 
 they say they have a hard time tell the pass of a train from a small earthquak . 
 is it hard for her to deal with her husband 's past life and past wife so often ? 
 but it was hard to defend myself becaus i do n't speak english well. '' 
 but it is hard to see how investor outsid the brokerag industri could have learn about the promis deal befor last thursday 's announc , as it was not mention in report judic has file with the secur and exchang commiss . 
 ( box ) dave 's coffe shop , 4299 broadway , oakland , ( 510 ) 658-2455 , would be hard to miss in that dark neighborhood even without the huge sign that make veri sure you know this is dave 's and it 's a coffe shop . 
 becaus he take pain killer and other medic , some day are harder than other . 
 just how mani book and magazin are there is hard to say . 
 `` and on the harder dive , i still get nervous. '' 
 sinc expo 86 spread word of vancouv 's charm , canada 's third-largest metropoli fill in the summer with a cosmopolitan mix of tourist , make inexpens and safe room hard to come by . 
 `` it 's veri hard to get a budget that 's both doabl and realist , `` said robert byer , dean of research , whose offic is slate for a $ 550 , 000 cut . 
 it 's so aw that it 's hard to believ it 's made by the same man who creat `` all in the famili , `` `` maud , `` `` mari hartman , mari hartman '' and `` fernwood 2-night. '' 
 `` when all i 'm ask for is a no-trad claus , what 's so hard ? '' 
 `` it 's hard to talk without cri , `` ruth said earli today from her new home near grass valley , where she move last week . 
 it 's hard to defin . 
 reserv hard to get ; get a reserv in popular coast or redwood park is like win a telephon lotteri , camper say . 
 `` it 's hard to believ it was anyon els . 
 `` it 's a lot harder than i thought it would be , and more expens than i thought it would be. '' 
 insid top fun ; hot shot , ' star charli sheen and lloyd bridg , is a parodi of so mani movi it 's hard to keep track . 
 `` our peopl work , and it 's just hard for them to get the time off. '' 
 `` it 's hard to find a place where they have a weak , `` tomey said . 
 have been activ all my life , it 's harder to let go of a young ' bodi . 
 is hard to believ that this mass of intertwin concret constitut what the law call `` the highest and best use '' of central locat urban land . 
 `` i think it 's realli hard to predict what is go to happen , `` said ann golseth , vice presid of student servic at fremont 's ohlon colleg . 
 it 's hard to imagin that not long ago we name a missil `` minuteman. '' 
 `` it 's hard to imagin have someon on the suprem court whose attitud toward the status of half the nation 's popul have been call into question. '' 
 `` it was hard for the infantri to get a handl on this , `` said jerri bartlett , an fmc execut and a retir armi general . 
 `` and the hard part is yet to go . 
 she has a rare form of cancer call germ cell tumor that often respond well to chemotherapi but `` when it come back is veri hard to get rid of , `` he said . 
 otherwis it is hard to explain their refus to allow region differ in price , or their long hesit befor close down uneconom pit . 
 but it is hard to argu with intel 's success , in part due to it manufactur invest . 
 harder to see ; the ntsb said the light configur use by the skywest plane compli with feder regul , but would have made it harder to see than if it had been fulli illumin . 
 risk is hard to measur , and chang frequent . 
 that market was close to foreign competit into the 1970s , and old habit have proven hard to break . 
 a spokesman for the california medic associ ( cma ) acknowledg it can be hard to find doctor who will take aid patient , and not just in southern alameda counti . 
 histori report that a great mani peopl have found this out the hard way ; among them were the relentless phalanx of alexand , the ruthless horsemen of genghi khan and the bayonet-tip minion of the british empir . 
 `` it 's harder to have all this inform and differ viewpoint , `` she said . 
 while the word of the rap song are a littl hard for older ear to comprehend , fee said backstag it 's easi for the young to pick up . 
 `` it 's hard for me to understand whi they wait so long befor file such a serious claim , `` said deputi state attorney general dane r. gillett . 
 he was the onli skater to includ two tripl axel in his long program and did the hardest combin of the night , a tripl axel/tripl toe . 
 lack of manag open sometim make it hard for hispan employe to move up , camarillo acknowledg . 
 the reason for the ad delay , said maj. mark rader , a spokesman for the militari postal servic agenc , is `` it 's harder to hit a move target , `` he said . 
 they lug around fat binder of handout and extra backpack of book , slog through their hardest subject in the decathlon curriculum -- scienc and mathemat -- and pass up date . 
 cristalina cendeja , a student at sequoia high school in redwood citi , has a hard time put her thought into word -- when the word are spoken in english . 
 patienc while intern sanction continu is easi to counsel and hard to practic , but for now it is the best cours . 
 it is hard to believ they could fail to see that among the mani peopl on death row who are guilti of murder there are peopl innoc of the crime for which they are incarcer . 
 he 's ask hard question about his valu , though the question have noth to do with net worth . 
 it 's hard to believ no one notic , `` he said . 
 the mayor and citi council -- and their staff -- are often hard to see on short notic . 
 `` but it 's so protract it 's hard to see the result you want in ani reason time frame. '' 
 the paus in the advanc of general busi activ this year has thus far been quit modest , it is hard to escap the conclus that the soften process will continu into the first quarter of 1961and possibl somewhat longer . 
 on street where life can be as hard , gray and dirti as the sidewalk , peopl seem to want art . 
 mayb exquisit pain , but it was the hardest time i ve ever had. '' 
 she would observ : `` have the babi made thing even harder , though men had left to studi or for other reason for even longer than that . 
 they learn war the hard way , not as staff type who got their vietnam ticket punch far from the shoot . 
 `` he has just been so dedic to the children that it 's hard not to support him when he 's in there , `` hussey said . 
 we do n't like to admit it , but let go is lot harder than be let go of . 
 `` i have peopl 's hous i can go to , but it 's hard to go everi day , especi at 7 o'clock in the morning. '' 
 -- parent , usa ; dear parent -- it 's hard to `` talk sens into their head '' when i have no idea what the problem is and no one want to discuss it . 
 in their book `` feed the bird '' ( workman , $ 8.95 ) , helen and dick witti warn that it 's hard to evalu packag wild-bird seed that is wide avail at supermarket , pet store and garden center . 
 on march 27 , 1990 , it main polici committe face a hard question : was econom activ slow so much that the fed need to stimul it or was growth still strong enough to avoid recess ? 
 alum rock is anticip a hard effort to get it april measur pass . 
 if haley doe n't take those word to heart , it 's hard to blame him . 
 to travel the road of hope and opportun is hard and difficult , but there is a chanc that you might somehow , some way , with the help of god , make it . 
 i find that hard to believ . 
 `` the hardest part was not be abl to tell anybodi , `` said righetti , 32 and a first-tim parent . 
 market director brian gruber say there is a lot of anecdot evid to suggest that cnn has been a big reason for the rush to hook up , although it 's hard to separ the war from the compani 's 20th-anniversari free instal deal , which began jan. 1 and began be promot just befor the war . 
 whether the upgrad card stock will boost sale of topp ' basic brand is hard to say . 
 this is the kind of histor item we re talk about , and it would make the perfect gift for that distinguish gentleman or ladi on your list who like to come home after a hard day , put on a comfort pair of slipper , and walk around the hous make loud flatul nois with his or her feet . 
 the task was harder than it sound . 
 `` after play there for 14 year , it 's go to be hard to sit on the visitor ' bench . 
 on `` china beach '' : ; i have a hard time deal with ( vietnam ) . 
 statist to support that are hard to come by . 
 it has been a hard time , bubba said , but `` it 's what life has dealt me right now . 
 i tri beano on three occas and i did n't notic ani signific reduct in flatul , though admit it 's hard to measur such thing . 
 mani program are primarili educ , and those are not hard to implement , said langer , becaus there are organ like cancercar that will send profession to give seminar or help manag set up more extens program . 
 unless you have a hard-to-find map that list each blm properti in a given district -- and ani accompani public road -- you can not tell whether the land you are see is public or privat . 
 with the cold war over and with fear of anoth pearl harbor at rest , it 's hard to rememb a thanksgiv day when there were more reason for the unit state to give thank than in this second year of the last decad of the centuri . 
 but the sudden attent given cardoen is n't hard to figur out , kaplan said . 
 it 's hard to say which was more surpris : that the cincinnati bengal final won , or the way they did it . 
 it 's hard to go wrong with the bbq babi back rib ( $ 15.95 ) or the wonder bbq pork chop ( $ 13.95 ) . 
 dent or no , find the illicit garden is n't as hard as some peopl would think . 
 `` the hardest thing has been that i miss my friend , the sens of belong , the sens of ident . 
 if the five nomine were so lack in `` excel , `` presum it would n't be hard to name five more excel choic ( by some good old white , male writer ) . 
 `` it is hard to excus his blind fatalist view in 1988 that the dictatorship of the communist parti remain untouch and untouch ' or that 'a long competit and struggl with the soviet union lie befor us , ' `` bradley said . 
 the hard-to-find star ; that 's how harper often leav his audienc -- scream . 
 `` it 's go to be hard without juli , `` potok admit . 
 it is n't hard to decid what to take becaus i ve often consid this possibl . 
 a senior administr offici acknowledg the lack of action , say , `` we have n't put out anyth in health care , so it 's a littl hard to defend. '' 
 `` my whole life certain has been a fantasi , so it 's hard to come up with frivol idea . 
 `` it 's so hard to take in all the color against the blue sky , `` said barbara kercsmar of albuquerqu . 
 tribut to midsumm `` bang-sash '' seem terribl funni , though it would be hard to explain whi . 
 i see him tri veri hard not to be ( unfair ) , but then i see case like that i disagre with. '' 
 was down , hard to talk to , and far too nonchal on the field . 
 but he assert that given the harsh of the terrain , `` it is hard for the peopl to surviv now at those altitud . 
 we hope that their activ posit will at last civil our life , which is rather hard now . 
 `` there 's been a run on antiqu and it 's realli hard to find them , `` reiff continu . 
 but it 's so hard for him be a black quarterback and be in that citi . 
 it 's hard enough to imagin the cool , sophist eikenberri talk like tammi wynett , but it 's a real challeng to buy her as a duti wife who work in a beauti parlor and subscrib to the submiss philosophi of wynett 's old `` stand by your man '' countri song . 
 for if `` roc '' the tv show becom the hit mani critic are predict this fall , it will be hard to find more of a hollywood-styl rags-to-rich success stori than dutton . 
 that 's a lot of work for someon who has a reput for be hard to work with . 
 mani of the speaker believ the new chief 's hardest task will be to continu improv the depart 's relationship with minor . 
 environment issu are especi hard , particular when the problem we are concern about disappear into thin air . 
 the hardest part is find a babi sitter . 
 `` i 'm just put pressur on myself , and it 's hard not to . 
 whitfield and baker sure deserv much better , even though it 's hard to imagin diana ross or ani of the myriad other actress who have tri to make a movi about baker play her ani better . 
 of cours , when it come to cloth , pattern have gotten a bad rap for be out of style and hard to make . 
 `` we ve lost our road-gam ( win ) streak , and the hardest place we ve been have to win at is home , `` mcintyr said , fulli respect of the ram ' abil to strike back . 
 the softwar also let you save part of the screen as graphic file on disk and let you magnifi menus -- they can be hard to read when you re use a larg screen with high resolut . 
 if they did n't do it that way , offici said , they 'd have a harder time fend off lawsuit from group claim they had n't receiv enough job . 
 today , david leeper , an assist vice presid of bellcor , the telephon research firm , say , `` it 's definit harder , in a multi-vendor market that is chang rapid , to guarante an overal network that 's entir reliable. '' 
 harrison 's client , san diego neurologist dr. mark levin , learn the hard way about what can happen if doctor do not proper fill out the disclosur card . 
 we have heard this so often that it 's hard to know ani longer if it 's a lament or an excus for the neglect of the youngest and poorest american . 
 this is almost what shelley took to be his frame of mind ; and it is hard to accept , with the de doctrina befor us , without talk about milton 's unconsci . 
 narrow road that snake up canyon are hard for peopl to flee down and for fire truck to charg up , especi all at onc . 
 pardon the adject , but it 's hard to believ this stuff goe without water . 
 i have a hard time with that one . 
 `` it 's hard to keep sharp , but it help to have a good crew , `` said shapiro , who brought his 4-year-old son , ben , with him to accept his award . 
 montana said : `` it 's hard watch . 
 the `` whi '' is n't hard to figur . 
 this mean they load themselv with honey , and it 's harder for them to sting when they re gorg . 
 milk carton are also as hard to recycl as asept juic box -- dispos box such as the one-serv contain popular with kid -- becaus of the insepar layer of mix materi . 
 `` i have a hard time go to bed at night sit up to see what 's happen in the war . 
 say austrian : `` ultim , and it 's hard to put a time frame on this , we 'd like to be one of the true intern sport . 
 but there 's someth inbr in a lot of us that make us forev self-consci and it 's hard to dismiss those gut feel on a whim . 
 duvet or comfort cover , long a stapl in europ , use to be harder to find than hen 's teeth in the state . 
 it 's hard to carri enough water for a long hike , so if you are plan to reli on stream , you must be prepar to disinfect the water befor you drink it . 
 i find it hard to see the moonbeam of truth through the smog of hypocrisi . 
 sjs order chang ; two major chang at sjs will make it harder for esl student to avoid their write problem : a new mandat for more write in all general educ cours , plus a new requir that all student take the write test befor they take ani of their requir upper-divis general educ cours . 
 it 's easi to chang good and price , but hard to chang the natur of the beast , particular such a big one . 
 `` we had a hard time tri to snap out of it in the third game . 
 first interst bancorp , hard hit by bad real estat loan , has announc that it will elimin 3 , 500 job by the end of the year and reorgan it sprawl 13-state oper in an effort to cut $ 250 million a year in cost . 
 `` it was hard to judg out there , a big guess game , `` she said . 
 `` it 's hard becaus we get treat bad , like anim sometim , `` the 22-year-old jaral said in spanish . 
 they are danger to enter , hard to clean . 
 it 's hard to tell . 
 `` it 's hard to articul the level of interest , `` said jame harpster , coordin of anniversari activ for the nation park servic , which overse the arizona memori . 
 when you visit a soviet orphanag , it is hard to keep your composur . 
 again : it 's hard to overestim the number of peopl who have comment -- favor -- on the person of the messag . 
 it still is a veri hard thing to deal with. '' 
 and sinc muscl burn calori faster than fat , that make it harder to stay slim . 
 offici said it was particular hard to assess the damag done to the entrench elit republican guard divis in a 4 , 000-square-mil area of kuwait and iraq -- a high-prior target . 
 jack is the hard one to convinc , though . 
 while saddam 's futur is anyth but clear , the alli may soon be forc to look for other countri will to provid home for mani of his long-suff soldier -- and may find them hard to come by , some analyst say . 
 `` it 's just veri hard to say , `` chalmer said . 
 possibl this is becaus she has had a hard time classifi them . 
 in fact , one of the onli good thing that can be said about this group is that it is hard to imagin the industri environ get wors . 
 unfortun for consum , discern if there is anyth truli `` green '' insid those fertil bag is even harder than select the product with the right n-p-k ratio ever was . 
 the simplest thing are hard these day for the giant . 
 but now magic johnson has an even harder job ahead of him if he is go to fulfil his pledg to becom an advoc of safe sex : now he is go to have to talk about how he contract the hiv virus . 
 `` three-d is pretti hard when you think about the math '' involv , engin dana batali said . 
 it 's also get harder to join a group health plan . 
 how hard is it to line up financ for real estat these day ? 
 `` sometim it 's hard when dad has to divid his time with all of these kid . 
 the court rule made it harder for women and member of minor group to win job discrimin lawsuit . 
 sign of hope that they will are hard to find . 
 but in each of these case , base on eyewit account as well as the cop ' , it 's hard to imagin how the offic could have act much differ . 
 but it 's hard to move the sort of stuff she carri . 
 `` i ve appli to so mani place -- denni 's , mcdonald 's , a car wash -- it 's hard to find work , `` he said in spanish . 
 chaffe said radar is use on busi road plagu by speed and accid and where offic have a hard time clock and pursu speeder in their patrol car . 
 it is hard for some area to assimil newcom , he say , but not this one , becaus we have a long histori of do so . 
 `` it 's a veri hard film to get financ , but i think a veri import one , particular for the youth of today -- to re-establish that those were n't silli , bore silent film with everyon throw custard pie . 
 and mailer 's obsess ( see below ) are just as hard to bear now as they were 40 year ago . 
 `` in the begin , it was hard , `` he said . 
 you can stay out of bar and dark alley , and avoid start fight with balki driver , but it 's hard to avoid lover , friend and relat . 
 if duct are hard to get at , call a heat contractor . 
 it was my life , and it was hard to just walkaway and say , hey , it 's in the past . ' 
 she say there 's a crew that repaint the licens plate when they get hard to read . 
 but sometim plain old reveng sure is hard to beat . 
 it 's `` weird '' and `` strang '' and `` tough '' and `` hard to accept '' be out of content , la russa 's player were say wednesday . 
 baker 's strategi ; that gambit was typic of baker 's approach : the secretari of state appear to be stake his initi on his success in arrang a peac confer ; to serv that goal , he has had to postpon the harder work of resolv issu of substanc . 
 ( they ) are live up to their standard , as hard as it is for you to imagin . 
 peopl say the qualifi tournament is harder than ani tournament you play in on the lpga tour . 
 saturday ) , but it 's hard to know if this can be transfer to the compani she now run . 
 `` it 's harder to explain away the peopl all lie than it is to believ that someth in fact happen , `` he say here . 
 fresno was have a hard time find a place to play , throw off the schedul of team the tiger were schedul to meet , the tribun report at the time . 
 it 's hard to know what 's right sometimes. ) 
 it would be harder for us to have one regular child than to have the 16 we have. '' 
 not a lot of hero ' ; harlow , 47 , one of a hand of volcano seismologist in the world , discount his `` indiana jone '' reput and said the success forecast and evacu was the result of `` a lot of peopl take a lot of respons and make hard decis . 
 without a healthi park fund , coonerti said , not onli will the citi be unabl to provid enough new park lot , but small-busi owner will have a harder time convinc bank that they will draw enough custom to pay off potenti reconstruct loan . 
 it is veri hard to tell the two apart in fifteen minut so we do not take ani chances. '' 
 patti hoath , an administr of the tax-counsel program for the aarp in washington , d.c. , said a lot of senior need help with their tax form for reason rang from physic ailment to print type on the tax form that senior often find too hard to read . 
 it 's way too hard to innov your way to rate success . 
 she final get the messag , but in the hardest possibl way : her doctor ( william windom ) diagnos her with a fatal ill and give her six month to live . 
 `` when we re click on all cylind , we re hard to beat. '' 
 it 's hard to count when your head and your torso are go in two separ direct at 45 mile an hour , but after five or six serious , major , gut-twist turn , sudden it 's over , and you feel the gentl caress of the denouement -- a mere rippl of track where the sky and the ground final return to the place god put them . 
 that is becaus , while do comedi may be hard , interview comedian is certain not . 
 `` it 's fair to say that anyon call the 202 area code had a hard time get through , `` shield said . 
 in this age of word processor , it just is n't that hard to generat a reject letter and stuff it in an envelop . 
 let 's not make it hard for travel . 
 it 's hard to figur how ceausescu 's repress regim found accept in the west , particular when the cold war began to thaw . 
 paul galm said prepar for the academ decathlon was harder than ani other cours he took this fall -- includ physiolog . 
 `` it 's just hard to not know they ( miami ) are there , `` bowden said . 
 if you re shop around for washington red , here are the best produc in the state of cabernet sauvignon and merlot : ; ( check ) quilceda creek -- veri hard to find , but these cabernet are the cream of the crop . 
 how we did that is hard to visual . 
 not that anyon in the green industri would phrase it this way , but mani busi thrive when time get hard . 
 yet ranstrom acknowledg that becaus shubb did not specifi how frequent the account notic must be issu , nor what type of inform they must contain , the effect of his order is hard to gaug . 
 as for the rest of us , left in the lurch by this revolt turn of event , life and televis , which are so hard to get separ these day , will never be the same . 
 `` he 's real care and give , `` said jennin zinner , a fellow counselor at the south counti center , `` but also cynic , embitt by a hard life . 
 that 's hard to say . 
 `` you know the park depart has had a hard time with us , `` said counti planner dave lute . 
 `` until you ve actual sat through a trial and seen the impact of a person like mr. dalla on the juri , it 's just hard to describe. '' 
 emili would add : `` my male classmat were general veri nice -- i 'm marri to one of them -- but it was hard to get good mark or to be call on in class . 
 i ve also found , when i 'm have a hard time rememb someth , it help to chang my physic posit . 
 `` it will be veri hard for consum to mount ani big spend upturn with jobless still grow , `` said allen sinai , chief economist of the boston co . 
 while it may be year befor the truth is known about the coup , it is hard to deni the kgb was at it heart , and that it was at root unchang by the reform of the gorbachev era . 
 and no matter what green say , it 's hard to catch colorado or notr dame on a bad day . 
 was an honest man do a hard job , and the implic that he was anyth els was unbear . 
 i find it hard to believ that out of 126 contributor , you did not print ani comment from male who claim to be suffer the effect of sexual harass . 
 `` it 's hard to be elat when we think that what trigger this is the death of two youngster in six year , `` mayor jack sutorius said . 
 but to creat a realli definit cultur type is veri hard , i think . 
 he 's includ in the playbil a chapter from san jose state prof larri engelmann 's histori of the fall of south vietnam , `` tear befor the rain '' -- the chapter on how hard it is to be an amerasian in vietnam . 
 `` it 's realli hard to understand becaus it ca n't be crowd becaus they re go to sell out . 
 `` it was hard to deal with , `` decious said of the loss . 
 `` poor famili are have a hard time here. '' 
 `` it was a hard decis , but i feel i 'm readi for the next level , `` he said at an afternoon news confer . 
 it would be hard to think of anyth more plain `` anti-constitutional. '' 
 it 's hard to imagin a sophomor be a team leader , but she is . 
 even gaze out a window is hard becaus the window have n't been wash of bird drop in two year . 
 it work well for simpl compound , he said , but it would be hard to imagin ever build a molecular-s robot this way . 
 it 's hard to imagin `` human bowl '' at joe 's place , at least in ani organ form . 
 this techniqu make it hard to keep track of even the princip stori line , deal with pearl harbor , the philippin and malaya . 
 movi are suppos to thrive dure hard econom time . 
 this was real hard at the begin , but now we make the best of everi day . 
 even the smuggest of us would probabl have a hard time say to a marxist , `` i told you so , sooner or later your god would fail you. '' 
 `` if you re in by 3 p.m. , we ll have you out by 3 p.m. the next day , `` say newman , a pledg mani dri cleaner would have a hard time match . 
 this five-month senat veteran is send encourag signal , but he 's also say thing like , `` if we do n't make some veri hard and tough polit decis now , we may end up destroy the beauti of california -- and no one want that. '' 
 if so , he may have a hard time defin it as a gay recruit film . 
 it 's hard to function. '' 
 los gato historian bill wulf , who rememb the movi hous from his teen-ag day , said he has a hard time envis the classic theater as a triplex . 
 in this case , it seem , both congress and the white hous came to the realize that lawmak were about to go home for two month without address the one issu foremost in voter ' mind -- the sag economi -- and that it would get increas hard for them to keep blame each other for the laps . 
 the tape make it harder for the truth to fade into a blur collect of oppos viewpoint , emot argument and attempt to hide the fact . 
 `` it 's been a hard year for her , on and off the court , `` he said . 
 `` it 's hard to play against them in practic and they do n't even tackl us ; what they do is someth call button-up ( halt the runner ) and it get so physic out there and they get so pump up , they just forget that we re on the same team . 
 `` it 's hard to say whi , but i felt bad mental , `` said volobuyev ( vo-lo-boo-yev ) , 44 . 
 small and flesh-color , and hard to stab with a fork , it doe n't garner a whole lot of respect . 
 ceramic-til counter top in kitchen or bathroom are eleg and , general speak , not too hard to instal over an exist counter top with a plastic lamin surfac such as formica , after the sink and faucet have been remov . 
 `` yeah , it 's hard , but you reach a certain point when you re a headlin , what els are you go to do ? `` she ask . 
 `` it would be hard to see how ani minor could be elect out of ani of these district , `` said swanson , an aid to u.s. rep. ron dellum . 
 despit the bargain-pric menu , we still spent $ 65 at dinner , includ tip , becaus i find it hard not to order wine , and i dislik spend $ 4 for a singl glass . 
 for generos abov and beyond , it 's hard to top bill and penni fitler of watsonvill , who won a night 's stay at the radisson south san jose hotel in a parent help parent contest -- and prompt gave it to san diego coupl with a daughter suffer from cerebr palsi . 
 it doe not block the way to anyth , and it is hard to see what militari valu it has as a target . 
 it is hard to find anyon at home these day and some peopl do not want to open the door for anyon . 
 the loss of hotel busi to the outskirt 's motel has been relat painless ; the hotel-motel demarc is becom harder to find everi year . 
 but most import , even the veri near-term futur in the soviet union is hard to read . 
 influenc mine , howev , rest on the bottom , where they are harder to find and can be set off by the nois , water pressur or the magnet `` signatur '' of a ship approach or pass overhead . 
 it was veri hard for him the last few days. '' 
 but in the face of all the problem in the world , is n't it just a bit hard to take boredom serious ? 
 `` it 's hard to make adjust and coach at the same time , and that 's what we did last year becaus we were so young , `` shaw said . 
 `` sometim it 's hard get all those figur down on the right lines. '' 
 one person hard to convinc is donald fehr , execut director of the major leagu player associ . 
 `` it 's hard to describ . 
 `` i 'm shi , `` bennett assert , a statement that 's hard to take serious as he sit beneath a larger-than-lif silhouett portrait of himself dure his counter-cultur day in new york citi . 
 `` that was kind of hard to take. '' 
 poinsettia and the yuletid season are so interlock that it 's hard to imagin one without the other . 
 select fund , of cours , is the hard part . 
 one food market consult was quot as say : `` it 's veri hard to describ a product fair and accur and still make it saleable. '' 
 `` it was hard to get stuff , `` he said , note that he 's still tinker with grass , `` good '' bug and an occasion shot of herbicid to help his crop . 
 but i suspect the giant ' front offic is have a hard time draw comfort from that tenet . 
 there are no figur on the preval of the problem , but research say the actual effect of the drug may be hard to detect becaus so mani of the men use steroid are still young and have not tri to have children . 
 thun , an epidemiologist at the american cancer societi headquart in atlanta , warn that even if the colon-canc find are born out , aspirin should never be `` a substitut for the harder thing that benefit health , such as not smoke , eat a vari , healthi diet , control your weight , get exercise. '' 
 it 's hard to understand folk when they have their tongu in their cheek . 
 although the stori is base on a brief histor account , the occasion lightheart tone of the text and the live watercolor illustr are both jar and hard to believ , given the document suffer at the camp . 
 at the same time , he said , `` i am have a hard time find stock i am realli interest in buy becaus the valuat i would appli if i were be tough with myself are n't there. '' 
 iron , their pay-tv rival , the disney channel , is march in the other direct , tri hard to lure more adult viewer for those time when the kiddi are either asleep or in school . 
 `` for the last six month , it 's been veri hard to find anyth on vinyl. '' 
 when phylli frelich talk , it 's hard not to stare . 
 a it 's hard to say . 
 it is hard to use and is quit slow . 
 it also chronicl beiderbeck 's hard and unhappi time . 
 they punish ordinari iraqi , not saddam , but they also make it harder , econom and polit , for saddam to strengthen his hold on power . 
 `` it 's hard to believ this was accident , `` said superintend rick marcoux , who began build the 145-unit complex in octob 1989 . 
 he said he was will to agre to `` anyth that get the bill out of committe , `` and agre to the onetim chang `` becaus the status quo has been so hard to break. '' 
 `` in term of econom fundament , it 's hard to think of ani that are particular bad . 
 it 's hard to think of a type of place to stay that bermuda doe n't have in depth . 
 without ancillari market , mgm has a harder time make a profit . 
 `` and it 's total hard to think that this person who you think you should be , who you want to be , is a lie. '' 
 it is hard to believ , but turner 's brave are as hot as his cabl news network was dure oper desert storm , as hot as his romanc with jane fonda . 
 `` i had a hard time breath . 
 after all , it 's hard to get giddi over ani one game when you re 35-46 and in fifth place , which will be the giant ' lot when the second half of the season begin thursday in philadelphia . 
 `` i think i ll fare well , but it 's hard to predict , `` canley said . 
 industri eye : `` it was a hard shoot for everybodi , `` say actress patricia arquett of lifetim 's `` wildflow '' tv movi set to air dec. 3 . 
 `` it will be veri hard for the cartel that 's control the scroll to put the geni back in the bottle. '' 
 `` that 's what 's so hard. '' 
 without the avail of capit at competit rate , it will be veri hard to test progress on ani other issues. '' 
 a rant against the system may be what peopl want to hear , but ultim a presidenti candid in these time need to tell voter what mani , appar , do n't want to hear : after you kick the bum out , you ll be left with hard choic on educ , defens , health care and tax . 
 wave of consolid ; with harder time ahead , industri observ expect a wave of consolid among the 12 , 000 bank and 2 , 000 thrift serv 260 million american . 
 but is too hard to tri to chang . 
 unlik deayardan , who ride a self-design , skateboard-s platform , the aussi were tri to master much bigger , harder-to-control board . 
 last word : i have a hard time tri to pinpoint my disappoint with this car . 
 if one has never studi the russian economi at close rang , it is veri hard to imagin the gap , or rather the canyon , that separ it from the u.s. economi . 
 `` i do n't know how i can ever expect them to understand what 's happen when i 'm have a hard time , `` she said . 
 5 : astro move fenc back ; as if it were not hard enough to hit a home run in the astrodom , the folk in houston decid to make it near imposs this season . 
 `` one of the most difficult thing in adapt is not the thing that are easi to give up but the choic that are hard , `` benton said . 
 i person had a hard time with hill come forward 10 year later . 
 `` it 's a hard choic right now , `` kidd said . 
 `` sometim it 's good to be away from it , but if you want to be around it 's hard to get away. '' 
 `` peopl say it 's hard to defin insid trade , but i think everi execut at everi compani know when they re in a gray area , `` he said . 
 talk to my son in saudi arabia , it 's hard to convey that . 
 `` corpor have fiduciari duti to equiti holder that are n't owe to debt holder , `` make it harder to bring case . 
 `` now it 's realli hard to figur out how to read the militari red tape. '' 
 if that happen , he say , troubl compani will find it harder to get the credit they need to reorgan . 
 `` the first year ( of elig ) was hard , but now it 's get better . 
 i know it 's hard to believ . 
 the late fred astair onc said , `` the hardest job kid face today is learn good manner without see any. '' 
 `` it was much harder than i thought . 
 it 's hard to turn down a long-term treasuri bond when the yield get to 8.4 percent , `` he said . 
 mindlink is both harder to learn than i expect and much more practic . 
 `` it 's real hard to get player to come to these game and i 'm grate to those who came , `` bird said . 
 the look : what work for me on the new bonnevill is a littl harder to take on the smaller grand am . 
 in fact , it 's a hard need to demonstr in mani case if environment valu are given the slightest consider . 
 it 's hard enough to meet peopl my own age in l.a. to meet a girl that i might have chemistri with is even harder. '' 
 it was hard to express all she felt . 
 it 's hard for report to determin how taylor is , becaus he doe n't speak to the press . 
 `` it 's probabl the hardest job in basebal , but we ve got a lot of veri capabl people. '' 
 chairman biden : judg thoma , these past few day have been veri , veri hard for all of us -- especi my good friend and colleagu sen. kennedi , becaus it is not easi for a man to sit through three full day of hear with a paper bag over his head -- but befor we let you go , there is just one more point i want to make , and it is a veri , veri import point , and i fulli intend to make it if i ever get to the end of this sentenc , which as you know and i know , judg , is high unlik to occur dure the current fiscal year , so . 
 `` there is an appar trend that it is somewhat harder for a mid-level player to get the free-ag pay dirt , mayb becaus of the mega-dollar go into the contract for superstar , `` shapiro said . 
 he rememb his parent talk of main , where they came from , a vagu and distant place gird with rock and bound by hard winter . 
 hsieh insist the issu is one of fair -- for him and for minor voter he say would have a harder time connect the sound of his name to it print form . 
 but the import differ are in harder-to-explain featur . 
 to wit : you will never have to learn anyth the hard way . 
 as ensembl go , turtl island is hard to beat . 
 and the program , one of four in the south bay , is have a hard time meet all their need . 
 my father is certain noth like tommi scanlan , and it 's hard for me to know how much my mother was like conni scanlan . 
 `` perhap , mr dark , '' chand said brusqu , `` you are find it hard to believ in me ? 
 the woman 's behavior `` would be kind of hard to fake . 
 this has been terribl hard on me . 
 when he 's on , it 's veri hard to make solid contact. '' 
 we are make everi effort to get by , but it 's so hard . 
 with the except of the khafji pow who fought well -- even if not to the death -- the iraqi captur so far have come from isol base that would be hard to resuppli in the best of time , one british offic said . 
 at the same time , our state budget process is in a fiscal straitjacket , bound up tight by a seri of structur constraint that prevent our leader from set budget prioriti and make the hard choic the time requir . 
 `` it was a chip i thought i could make , but to make it is hard to believe. '' 
 lover of the tv game will be especi disappoint ; it 's hard to visual a contest dress like a turnip over the phone . 
 craig said he would have let hickerson work longer than five inning , but he alreadi had thrown 84 pitch , and hickerson said he had a hard time recov from his last start . 
 `` it 's go to be a long , hard winter for a lot of peopl , `` said mayor abbi covington . 
 onc a slide downhil get go , it 's hard to stop , becaus no one believ that what was onc possibl is possibl ani more . 
 `` it 's easi to do this book now , but it was hard two year ago , `` she say . 
 some competitor suggest the cost-cut will pinch cb 's data servic and other help for it broker , and they say cb will have a hard time boost revenu becaus it alreadi take half a broker 's commiss -- one of the biggest bite in the industri . 
 it 's hard to imagin what the reaction might have been had notr dame lost . 
 `` it 's so hard not to be polit ! `` she said . 
 `` get fund is hard , `` said prez , a full-tim student who support herself from her feder supplement secur incom . 
 blow up tank is easi ; stabil is hard . 
 `` it 's someth to hear it on tv , but it 's hard to cope with when you come into school and see that empti seat , `` said rosemari bulaich , one of the 15 counselor who were at the san jose school wednesday help student cope with the bizarr tragedi . 
 the agenc 's program of bulk sale is intend to unload hard-to-sel properti . 
 in theori , at least , the servic sector and high-tech industri are the place where the u.s. economi is generat new job , but you 'd have a hard time prove it by the recent experi of my famili . 
 a lot of peopl think the secret is out on spring train , and that it 's start to get so hard to buy game ticket that it 's almost not worth go anymor . 
 i ask golda if what she doe is hard . 
 spot the recess 's end is not that hard . 
 but it is harder to mimic the speech of the nativ . 
 would be hard to find anyth more equivoc than : `` i can not recommend him too high '' . 
 it 's go to be harder for him ( now have to learn carmen ' on the doubl ) , but he ll be prepared. '' 
 the cover : to make call from home harder to trace , cracker might use stolen telephon credit-card number to place a seri of call through differ long-dist carrier or corpor switchboard befor call the target comput 's modem . 
 not be name coach of the u.s. olymp basketbal team still hurt , although it 's hard to understand what more nelson could have done to beat out detroit 's chuck dali , except win two nba championship . 
 `` but the competit is much harder than it was when merckx or other could win near ani race . 
 but it is more expens and harder to learn than photoshop and doe n't have it huge hold on user and relat product . 
 inde , it would have been hard to discern a domin element in the delic sauc of pine nut , meat juic and garlic that accompani my rare grill quail ( $ 14.95 ) , while my companion 's entre , a sort of bake fish , was a triumphant marriag of flavor . 
 the march 25 letter from charl moor on rival rail system draw so mani illog conclus it is hard to know where to start in refut . 
 `` the hardest thing is the languag problem , `` shark general manag jack ferreira said . 
 atmospher did n't enter into our decis either , but it 's hard to overlook the set at central texan . 
 most peopl would have a hard time live up to such lofti bill . 
 `` a more unfeel remark would be hard to find . 
 it 's funni , peopl say it 's not that hard to record a tv program off my vcr . 
 see what he saw after the first pitch , it was not so hard . 
 each anim will wear a har that record it heart rate and oxygen consumpt , an indic of how hard it is exercis . 
 decent job are hard to find . 
 ( box ) is brook shield a hard act to follow ? 
 the plan also would make it harder for potenti gun buyer to obtain a firearm acquisit certif , and requir weapon to be lock up when not in use . 
 even befor his first offici day of work , east palo alto 's new polic chief got a hard lesson in the financi and manag problem he is inherit : a notic that the depart 's crime-fight comput would be repossess . 
 it 's hard to think now that we have to give up what make us more safe. '' 
 it 's hard enough to make a film without write letter to the editor in the 15th and 16th hour of the day . 
 i 'd much rather see a glorious parad celebr what smart kid we re turn out ; except that 's hard to do when the educ depart tell us , as it did two week ago , that none of our state is do an adequ job teach math in the school and most are do miser . 
 litton also play outfield , so that will make it increas hard to keep someon such as leonard . 
 mayb it 's harder to develop new fuel than penn think it is . 
 but it is a hard time for constitut right . 
 `` it 's hard to know what a despond person is go to do . 
 if the standard has been inculc among the rank and file , if everyon understand their role , then joe mcnamara should n't be so hard to replac . 
 `` it 's hard work , but i guess we ve prove it can be done , `` said wright one recent afternoon in his offic a half block off loyalton 's main drag . 
 in addit to this histor appeal , there is also consider archaeolog interest , for the island is dot with the work of prehistor man , even though much of this record in stone is hard to read . 
 `` the hardest part about it all was i interview dozen of contractor . 
 as a measur of the extent to which the unit nation would go to prevent saddam from creat hard-to-detect biolog weapon , the plan set standard for bacteriolog laboratori in iraq . 
 british televis is as obsess with the war as america 's , and with onli four channel to choos from , war coverag is hard to avoid . 
 `` peopl are have a harder time qualifi ( for a loan ) these day , `` said herbert b. tasker of all pacif mortgag co. of concord . 
 how it is that celtic mysteri and individu beauti can coalesc in a flaki , metal shield on prong is hard to say in simpl term . 
 `` charl made a hard call , `` say craig gilliland , sunse ' attorney . 
 grow number of poor and non-english-speak student just make the job harder , he point out . 
 `` it 's a job that 's hard to explain . 
 you will also be respons for make back payment to your right lender and may get hard-to-remov black mark on your credit record . 
 that 's hard to quantify. '' 
 the class member , who are of normal intellig and pretti good at math , are in the special educ class becaus they have a hard time with languag and write . 
 text hard to get ' ; look for advic on grow without synthet chemic , masumoto found himself look in agricultur text written befor world war ii . 
 the hot seat : all brendan shanahan want to do is play hockey , but sometim it 's hard be the guy who cost the st. loui blue scott steven . 
 the council is schedul to vote on whether to join santa cruz counti and the citi of watsonvill and scott valley in make cigarett and tobacco harder for minor to obtain by ban the sale of those product from vend machin . 
 those would be hard thing to walk away from. '' 
 `` the one that reli on the rich babi boomer are the one i see have a hard time. '' 
 mariel hemingway ; ( box ) papa was a hard act to follow ; her appear at age 17 in woodi allen 's manhattan made her a star , but none of her subsequ film was a hit , so hemingway took a leav from the screen to be a mother . 
 `` it 's realli veri hard to put into word , to get your hope up and then have them dash time after time . 
 `` it 's hard to tell whether this is an isol incid or someth more. '' 
 and it 's pretti hard to go knock on peopl 's door and interrupt their privaci to find out what 's wrong. '' 
 money is especi tight for the countri 's rural elder , who also find that health care is more expens and harder to get than in the citi , agricultur depart research report today . 
 even though halloween is a time for the weird and supernatur , it 's hard to believ the scari recess remedi that has sudden gain popular in congress . 
 they thrive on the stress deadlin creat and have a hard time concentr on their task without it . 
 in a cynic age of 30-second hit spot , it 's hard to rememb that local polit was onc brim with ideal . e 
 `` it 's hard to say when it 's go to come about , `` said nathan snyder , technic director of the ralph m. parson co. , a giant southern california engin firm of the notion to ship alaska 's water to california , `` but it will have to come about. '' 
 as more potenti buyer learn of the hazard , your home will be even harder to sell . 
 i 'm plenti bitter and i 'm go to have a hard time trust anoth woman . 
 `` it 's hard to describ exact what it is . 
 the place is not hard to find . 
 `` that 's veri hard to take that . 
 qualif hard to check ; consum group , such as california advoc for nurs home reform , have never regist a complaint against nurs train oversea . 
 it 's so hard to believe. '' 
 librarian have alway had to decid these question , but as budget declin , the choic becom harder . 
 that 's pretti hard to believ , given his posit as deputi director at the time . 
 plummer a cal walk-on ; lineback gari plummer made the pros the hard way . 
 watch serrano at anoth , repopul town , it 's hard to imagin her settl for a life as a peasant , slap tortilla and scrub cloth . 
 `` as long as the bird migrat to third world countri that are still use these harm pesticid , it 's hard to say how far our effort will go , `` erwin said . 
 these vice are hard to give up , you know , `` danilov said . 
 romero 's will be a veri hard act for anyon to follow . 
 fund-rais is difficult , and it 's get harder . 
 but it is hard to get an accur figur . 
 it 's hard to put a finger on what went wrong friday and whether it was just an off night or someth essenti wrong with what manhattan transfer is tri to do on the road this time out . 
 in 1940 , lamarr -- whose first husband was an austrian weapon mogul -- came up with an idea for make the radio guidanc system of torpedo harder to jam . 
 she found this out the hard way . 
 `` it 's hard to explain anti-semit and thousand of year of histori , but the simplest respons i ve found is to tell her that oftentim what peopl do n't understand , they fear . 
 `` i had heard so mani horror stori from friend in the industri about how hard they are to deal with and how you should n't go and talk to them becaus they will just tri to steal all your secret . 
 `` for ( the hammer ) to get where it got , it 's hard to see how it got there , `` hunt said . 
 older technolog were cruder and harder to use , especi on the dos side . 
 so mani low cloud are come in that it 's hard for the sun to burn them off in time for the air to warm up much , nelsen explain . 
 it 's hard to let go of someth you love , someth you know is good . 
 florida court decis suggest that an obstruct charg would be hard to prove against someon who did not return polic phone call , even if it were proven that the person knew polic want to speak with him . 
 `` it 's hard to believ , `` brokaw said . 
 `` survey after survey show that emerg child care is the hardest to find , `` said barbara reisman , execut director of the child care action campaign , a nation advocaci group . 
 it 's hard to evaluate. '' 
 the speedomet , locat dead-cent in the dash , can be hard to see . 
 the first time you add redwood soil condition it will be a chore , as the soil is hard to spade . 
 is no harder to rais big , healthi , bloom plant than weak , sick littl thing ; in fact it is easier . 
 i do not wish to be a saint ( saint are so hard to live with ) but a sour old person is the work of the devil . 
 it was veri hard be back here , `` she say . 
 feel good do this ' ; granado say move into the shelter has been hard for joel , who has becom worri and remot . 
 ( we find it hard to believ santa clara counti transit , which say 144 , 000 peopl , or 10 percent of the counti 's popul , ride the bus weekdays. ) 
 the nation taxpay union said it was `` hard to imagin a more inappropri use of taxpay funds. '' 
 get into one of those jazz site is n't that hard . 
 `` it was hard to get up for game , `` he said . 
 our school district is no longer carri blue cross insur , so it is hard for me to correspond with them . 
 usa 's `` lightn field '' is a harder road , particular for viewer who ve seen all the ancient-curs movi they need for a lifetim . 
 in mountain view , where 80 percent of the resid do n't have kid in school , money is hard to come by . 
 `` a championship is hard to predict , but i think they would be disappoint if they did n't finish somewher in the top four . 
 it 's not hard to imagin the magnitud of miseri in poorer california counti and other state . 
 the hardest part for most parent is stick to the attack plan . 
 `` we had a hard time get out of romania at that time , `` she said . 
 it will be harder becaus thoma ' defend struggl all day , with limit success , to suggest what kind of twist motiv hill might have had for tell monstrous lie about him . 
 said warrior assist coach patti mcdaniel , `` if we had lost that game , it would have been hard to recov from for the rest of the match. '' 
 it 's so hard to say we ca n't stand you . 
 she is not quit as glamor as the `` snazzi '' michael o'neil pictur that ran in april 's vaniti fair , but then , it 's hard to write , report , rais three children and talk to your husband if your espresso brown hair is alway swing around your head like food order on a short-ord cook 's wheel . 
 from miss delaney we get the authent accent of the young ; and from mr bart we get a larg number of veri good tune , which some more tradit quarter have found hard to come by late . 
 it 's hard to be bore when your subject is william s. burrough , jack kerouac and neal cassadi . 
 but it 's hard to believ there 's a large-enough late-night audienc not alreadi hook on arsenio or johnni to give him too much time to practic . 
 way befor you go to court , i do n't think it 's that hard to figur out when a situat involv sexual harass is becom unbear . 
 it was a hard decis , but i think it 's better to leav the coach to the young turks. '' 
 `` be such an odd person , did she have a hard time when she was a child ? `` was anoth queri . 
 `` we have a higher rate of fussi babi , `` say pamela clark , coordin of the counti 's perinat substanc abus program , `` but whether that 's drug or their environ is hard to say. '' 
 `` it will be hard to dispos of the s & l mess itself , or the bank crisi that has follow it , `` garment write , `` as long as we refus to address the nonperson structur factor , such as the distort deposit insur system , that underlay the crisi in the first place. '' 
 `` i thought calgari would be one of the harder team to beat . 
 `` his patient are have a veri hard time tonight , `` said lewiston 's wife . 
 it 's hard enough to write a cop show , but here you re go to deal with other lifestyl and moral valu . 
 i 'd rather leav the church than give you up. ' `` ; she learn the whole truth the hard way -- from one of the other women who had been involv with the preacher . 
 if you start plan now for a 1992 basebal draft , how hard would it be to pinpoint 10 to 15 elit name ? 
 the hard road lie ahead , but she 's off to a good start . 
 `` it 's hard to make those wine for that kind of money , so we re realli not look to increas our number as much as just make better wine from the key variet that are best produc in this area. '' 
 when you have n't been win , it 's hard to win a game , `` a 's manag toni la russa said. `` . 
 we have some hard decis to make in the next 10 days. '' 
 it was gratifi to note that they had set so solid as to be hard to remov when the time came . 
 after two month of shuttl across the mideast on four differ trip , he has learn the hard way that the persian gulf war has not yet given birth to a new era in arab-isra relat . 
 the hansen bill aim at end abus in the small-busi market that have becom so pervas that it is now hard for insur compani to compet without engag in them . 
 it 's hard to leav school and my friend . 
 it 's veri hard to approach somebodi on this level with advic , `` but these inform session are when it 's easiest to say , `` i ve been watch you and i ve seen someth , it may be noth , but here it is anyway. '' 
 `` sometim you get off to a start like ian did , and it 's hard to keep it go , `` said o'meara , who live near baker-finch in orlando , fla. , and is one of his close friend . 
 suspens of disbelief may be a littl harder this year . 
 the search is too hard , the chanc of win invit comparison to the lotteri . 
 still , it may be hard for viewer to see light as quit the same love mom on `` who 's the boss ? `` after watch her feed arsenic to her onli daughter on `` wife , mother , murderer. '' 
 q : but is n't it hard for someon like you , who doe n't read a singl note of music , to write a choral work ? 
 the problem was n't hard to figur out . 
 for a preacher who deliv some scorch sermonett against the use of drug , jess jackson is find it hard to shake his own addict . 
 it would make it harder to discrimin in hire , employ and promot . 
 `` i have a hard time with that , `` he said somber . 
 and they are craft not in accord with what scienc has found to be safe , but what lawyer have proven hardest to litig against . 
 assist u.s. attorney leland altschul said that while white might have had a hard time as a youngster , he at least had a childhood . 
 it 's hard for rock 'n ' roll to be realli polit correct . 
 burum agre that mani of the schedul label on the collect box in los gato are hard to read . 
 at this critic moment , it will not be surpris to you that i have been ask myself hard question about the institut 's leadership . 
 harri believ his daughter 's death has been harder on his wife . 
 the exam has preoccupi well execut for week and hurt the san francisco bank 's stock price becaus the outcom was hard for anyon to predict . 
 but in recent year gourmet editor have simplifi their menus and overcom their fascin for hard-to-get ingredi . 
 and vice presid is a hard posit in which to both 1 ) make your mark and 2 ) remain loyal to the presid . 
 control mistleto is hard , becaus it attach itself to the tree 's vascular system , the part which carri water and nutrient to all part of the tree . 
 `` befor it get easier it 's go to be harder , `` kim say . 
 everi year a number of toy becom hard-to-find best seller . 
 `` i tri to think back , and it was n't hard , to the brutal and the terribl grief that the famili that stay in kuwait had . 
 `` becaus of the natur of the accid it 's hard to say if there were ani violat of state safeti code that could be contribut factor . 
 ( rememb how hard it was to find scud missil in iraq ? ) 
 no wonder it 's so hard to make a putt . 
 it 's hard to put a price on such rariti . 
 he 's way off base ; jim palmer 's comeback bid was hard to take serious . 
 `` it 's hard enough to set these ( five ) as prioriti , instead of chicago , san francisco , dalla , new orlean and all the other , `` morri said . 
 it 's hard for me to consid perfume-fre air a matter of anyon 's civil right with auto exhaust come in everi door. '' 
 `` it 's hard to believ , `` roger craig said afterward . 
 it 's odd how mani kitchen instrument have been replac by a motor version no more effect , much bulkier , and harder to wash . 
 it 's hard to describ the complet and utter inept of the oregon squad , but we ll give it the old colleg tri : ; the duck fumbl six time . 
 in the arena of polit , where the thomas-anita f. hill drama play out , it is hard to say whose name end up dirti and who end up smell like a -- well , not smell too much . 
 it 's just veri hard to say it briefli . 
 one thing most of the girl share is a new realize that take care of a babi is harder than they expect . 
 but for travel with result , it 's hard to top silicon valley 's deleg to the intern gay and lesbian human right commiss meet in leningrad and moscow earlier this month . 
 there was no subject , he said , about which it was harder to write truth . 
 but should walsh and his staff fail to do so , it is hard to see how ani similar immun defend could ever be success prosecut . 
 `` it was hard to ( imagin ) that this would happen. '' 
 for exampl , simmon had a hard time of it at sever prep school he attend ; he tell us as much . 
 playwright toni kushner learn it the hard way , when corneill 's name got second bill to his own in the hartford ( conn. ) 
 the crux of the problem is that the economi is at a turn point -- soemewher between recess and recoveri -- and it 's hard to get a clear read on where thing stand . 
 the new short are typic cut veri full , like a skirt ( often it 's hard to tell the differ ) . 
 it 's harder to sleep . 
 but put everyth under one agenc may be veri hard to pull off polit , eastin acknowledg . 
 `` boy would like it as much as girl , i think , becaus it 's pretti hard to tri to figur out how to kill the bad guys. '' 
 `` life is hard , but i do n't forget you , `` they sang in high voic . 
 `` it 's hard to balanc this off . 
 most peopl incarcer at riker island , even for bounc a check , would prefer the innermost circl of hade , so what it must be like for a known child molest is hard for us to comprehend . 
 they re hard to find . 
 recognit , hard to come by befor , will be more scarc than ever . 
 kouski note one similar between this year and 1982 : the presenc of a cloud of volcan debri in the air , make it hard to use satellit measur to determin water temperatur . 
 here 's tonga 's best beach ; pangai , ha'apai , tonga ; i promis i would n't do this , but journalist juic are hard to control . 
 it 's just that it 's hard to do thing that are bizarr or odd if i 'm under everybodi els 's direct . 
 bathroom and powder room are a littl harder to tuck away , becaus the pipe have to be hidden and becaus build code govern the placement of fixtur . 
 it 's just that it 's hard to have all of them over there . 
 ( age ) will be harder for madonna. '' -- grammy-win singer-songwrit bonni raitt 
 still , gaze around the desert shop mall , it was n't hard to see what had driven this poor store owner over the edg . 
 for merrili milbert of san jose 's rose garden area , aesthet , sturdi , and the excel of it cook caus her to lay out about $ 1 , 500 for a hard-to-find 1947 wedgwood with six burner , two oven and two broiler . 
 `` the feel we get is that this is go to be a veri hard winter , `` mcente said . 
 `` we re go to face a rather hard winter , `` said ambassador viktor komplektov . 
 whi is it so hard for men to be just friend ? '' 
 work on : presid of the bay area pagan assembl , christian help found the organ `` becaus it 's hard for pagan to find other pagan , `` she say . 
 but her friend , too , find it hard to categor ardanell dishon . 
 we do n't quit know the outcom of this episod , except that geraldo rivera was last heard mutter , `` well , good guest are so hard to get . . . '' 
 for all that , there are still those who say it will be hard for robinson to achiev bo jackson 's level as an endors . 
 `` this was the hardest decis i ever had to make . 
 `` the system make it veri hard to do that . 
 `` the board has to be abl to ask hard question , and ask for inform in a certain way , so it understand it . 
 if you re have a hard time keep up with the eric lindro sideshow , do n't feel alon . 
 still , accept the help will be hard , hill said . 
 but now this conveni silenc is hard to maintain . 
 `` onc you eat this stuff , it 's hard to eat store-bought . 
 the hardest job for embre has been talk his way past polic line . 
 way it 's hard to beat in flavor as well as eas of prepar . 
 what we would now call his lifestyl was hard to squar with class-war precept , make him sort of a limousin socialist . 
 the stake are veri high , and the question will be veri hard. '' 
 may now take up for consider a hard case which seem to requir either no action employ econom pressur or els action that would seem to violat the principl set forth abov . 
 timberwolv 112 , king 94 : sacramento enter the nba record book the hard way , lose their 35th straight road game when a third-quart cold spell doom them to the loss to minnesota in minneapoli . 
 councilman steve blanton said los gato ' properti tax revenu repres such a small overal amount to santa clara counti that `` i find it hard to look at this situat as critic dollar for the county. '' 
 which make it veri hard to be king . 
 but survey and consumpt data show that major diet chang -- and the right chang -- are hard to make : ; ( check ) red meat sale were down over the past 10 year , and the consumpt of grain , fruit and veget was on the rise . 
 `` we need the win , but we seem to make it hard either way . 
 one reason craig and rosen find patienc so hard to come by is their background . 
 most of the draft from the lotteri pick on down is guesswork becaus it 's hard to know how a colleg kid is go to do in the nba until he slap his sneaker on a pro floor . 
 is it hard to retir ? 
 more high formal than `` wait for godot '' , `` endgam '' , and `` krapp 's last tape '' would be hard to find . 
 it ll be hard to knock the smile off my face. '' 
 it would be hard to question that he is n't the best player in the game right now. '' 
 `` that 's the hardest thing for me , `` said barrientez , 23 , who has been in the mental health system sinc age 12 and suffer from mood swing , a condit that is control by medic . 
 `` everyon connect with this foundri has work veri hard to identifi addit busi opportun both within and outsid the compani , `` deer chairman han becher said in a news releas . 
 if girl had to earn esteem in the same way that boy do , they 'd be more like to sweat out the hard subject , where what count is object masteri . 
 without the program , he said , it 's hard for the council to know what the communiti want . 
 `` i would have had a hard time live with myself , play eight , nine year in the minor and get so damn close but never get there , `` he said . 
 but such a claim is hard to prove . 
 it will be hard for an american worker to justifi 10 time the rate of a mexican worker and i know of no american will to work for a tenth of their current pay . 
 it 's hard to take this serious from a govern that spent $ 600 apiec on toilet seats. '' 
 it has been harder to reduc the salt content , but that has n't hurt the municip golf cours where the effluent has been use experiment . 
 that 's alway hard for me to swallow. '' 
 organ fraud ring file ten of thousand of claim annual for soft-tissu injuri such as back and neck sprain that are hard to prove medic . 
 as the tower celebr it 50th anniversari today , it 's hard to ignor the contribut it scholar have made to conserv caus of this countri , nowher more startl than dure the reagan administr . 
 no hard one to duck ; dure jane pauley 's interview with pete rose ( to be telecast sunday ) , she ask charli hustl if his agre to the interview was just a public relat `` hustle. '' 
 add to that list the black charact featur on two new drama -- `` i ll fli away '' ( a clean woman ) and `` homefront '' ( a chauffeur and his janitor son ) -- and you get a televis pictur of black life move from good time to harder time . 
 a hard lesson await mani of the nation 's 45 million schoolchildren and their teacher this fall : how to make do with less . 
 today , say mfa 's julian , `` it 's harder to tell if a suit is italian , or french or american. '' 
 moreov , the general emphasi on short-term gain , base on quarter report , make it hard for the manag , except in veri larg compani , to invest in long-term research . 
 the town archiv , watch over by the mayor and the esteem prof. juckenack , are particular hard to crack . 
 he conclud , `` to me , premium are hard to swallow. '' 
 is a flavor that might take a littl get use to- not becaus it is unpleas , but becaus the flavor is hard to defin in the light of our experi with other fruit . 
 a garden found out the hard way this weekend that in los alto , more than leaf blower should be quiet . 
 he 's been 94 on the ray gun , that 's on the slow gun , and even a littl bit harder , `` kuehl said . 
 for such a well-market , well-receiv new team , the shark are have an aw hard time work out a cabl deal with the sportschannel network . 
 sexual harass may be difficult to defin , make it hard to come up with simpl rule -- the do 's and don't of how to harass sexual without violat titl vii of the 1964 civil right act . 
 but it is harder to wonder , with guid light such as georg bush , the acceler nation debt , the junk bond loss and twice the bank failur as occur dure the depress , just how much of this mess we creat ourselv . 
 democrat decid ; it will be hardest of all for the democrat , and the arithmet give them the upper hand . 
 east side union high school district figur it will cut one class out of everi senior 's day -- make it harder to take music , art , drama , even a foreign languag . 
 `` it 's go to be a hard thing to look at guy after go through someth like that. '' 
 like milosev , yeltsin prefer issu decre to the harder task of persuas . 
 `` in come year , it will be hard to believ how low bond yield ( the flip side of rise bond price ) will get , `` said gari conway , presid of conway , william & foster in menlo park . 
 add sutcliff : the cub ' veteran pitcher , who underw shoulder surgeri last year , found it hard to suppress his emot after thursday 's comeback victori . 
 with all those pretti girl around , they had a hard time '' . 
 although both herd and individu yield have now been surpass by friesian cow in this countri , it would be hard to find so mani cow of uniform excel anywher els . 
 it 's pretti hard to redeem yourself after commit three error and bungl a double-play attempt , but san jose giant second baseman frank carey came about as close as you can get in game 2 of the california leagu northern divis playoff seri at municip stadium on saturday night . 
 for one thing , gain in product -- an import element in the inflat equat -- are hard to achiev dure period of declin econom activ . 
 i find it hard to believ rolm could be so inconsider as to do this and ruin a beauti , peac famili event . 
 he has gone from a kid who fought take colleg prep class -- `` i was n't think about go to colleg , so whi make it hard '' -- to a young man with an a- grade averag who sometim spend lunch in the librari and who want to be a doctor . 
 their hard road to freedom led them through drought and famin , against u.s. opposit and a billion-dollar soviet militari slaughter . 
 in small class , teacher can teach , not just maintain control , and it 's harder for kid to hide out in the back row . 
 but now john say he 's decid to give up his 23-year career as a carpent , in part becaus of arthriti and in part becaus consist work is too hard to come by . 
 `` i hear it 's real hard , `` said vanc , who just return to the bay area after work in nebraska for a year . 
 the child may be disori and hard to awaken and calm , but usual return to sleep quick with littl or no memori of the event the next day . 
 so far , mbari 's scientif contribut is hard to gaug . 
 it 's sure hard on me to pay it with util , rent and groceri . 
 ( the realiti , though , is that attract shopper to downtown san jose -- even with valid come-on -- still is about as hard as tri to sell new shake roof to california hill-dwellers. ) . 
 `` they spoke with a degre of knowledg , experi and currenc that was hard to overlook. '' 
 was the hard way to fight a war but thoma did it without make ani disastr mistak . 
 it becam a littl harder to purchas a hous on monday , especi for first-tim buyer . 
 make the transit from the middl east to the bay area was n't hard , he ad . 
 unfortun , the display is hard to read , the batteri do n't last long enough , the processor is about to be obsolet , and the whole thing weigh too much . 
 `` this busi is hard enough without the council tell us how we can serv and who we can serv to , `` peterson said . 
 it 's hard to see someth the same color as the sand or shadow , but the same thing would be easi to spot if it was red or orang . 
 call me squeamish , but i found it hard to work up an appetit at that point . 
 `` we did n't have mani opportun , and it was hard to get ani continu , `` redskin coach joe gibb said . 
 ( box ) her stori : this is ekstrom 's assess of her season : ; `` i had n't been in gymnast for so long that it was hard to come back . 
 `` juvenil are veri hard to place , `` said salli brennan , execut director of cupertino communiti servic , a non-profit social servic agenc that work with the court on the altern sentenc program . 
 and the sidewalk is stain with oil becaus , and this may be hard to visual , section of what appear to be the sidewalk are actual for vehicl park . 
 it 's pretti hard to believ . 
 seem alway in motion , it 's not hard to imagin the stocki `` hurrican '' rosenberg in his youth , move down the basketbal court where , as point guard , he call the play . 
 trader said the biotech group has been hit as investor take profit amid a realize that the recent rise in the group was base on specul that might be hard to bear out . 
 i said , abe , you are a hard man to fool. ' `` ; ivin was write about neighborhood after that , but too mani time , such descript as `` a beer-gut belli '' got chang to `` a protuber abdomen. '' 
 american sens he was `` one of us '' -- make it the hard way in a demand world , sometim proceed awkward , sometim even cheat . 
 87 percent are good driver ' ; the reason are not hard to comprehend . 
 `` i guess we ought not do it , but sometim when they get it start in the stadium , it 's hard to resist. '' 
 it 's hard to imagin that the tan , muscular man kick a soccer ball up and down athlet field from mountain view to los gato six day a week ever could have been uncoordin . 
 it will be a hard move for roger angel , 70 , basebal writer and fiction editor . 
 `` it 's been veri hard to be back , `` she said . 
 besid , it 's hard to be too pessimist when the museum is open an addit that will give it almost as much galleri space as new york 's fame whitney museum of american art . 
 the harder of the two battl is , of cours , the one in india , sinc here the institut of cast has the momentum of three thousand year of histori behind it . 
 it 's hard to miss the river inn , becaus it 's the first outpost you come to after carmel , and a sure sign that you re now , offici , in big sur . 
 ( check ) if your duct are alreadi insul : it 's harder to find out if your duct leak . 
 `` it 's hard to say how far down the nikkei will go , but it could eventu sink as low as 23 , 000 point , `` said hosaku endo , a trader with dresdner secur . 
 -- loretta corral ; san jose ; fiscal fiasco hold econom lesson ; a hard econom lesson is be learn by our feder , state and local agenc : you simpli should not spend more money than you have . 
 the real solut is to get rid of the gun now in circul and make it a lot harder to get new one . 
 feder spokesman ian barn said it was hard to accept the valid of sele ' medic excus becaus she continu to play in the new jersey event . 
 but for dedic to the caus , it 's hard to top char krumwied , director of volunt for the silicon valley chariti ball . 
 the newly-releas stanford studi of homeless famili is a veri help descript of the hard live of homeless parent and children . 
 `` if a man 's not a man , then it 's hard to be romant , `` he say . 
 it 's realli hard to joke with him about it , `` said speaker brown , one of vasconcello ' closest alli in the assembl . 
 meet are hard to schedul , and citi employe who spoke candid in the past seem less forthcom in the presenc of their boss . 
 i ll admit that be on the monterey peninsula of california is better than be in the `` inner citi , `` but it 's pretti hard in ani case to maintain a sens of self-worth when you re not sure where you re go to eat , sleep or go to the bathroom . 
 with so few left , jew here say it is hard to have faith . 
 as a mother and a work woman , i can tell professor banner that motherhood is much harder work than ani 9 to 5 job . 
 it was hard at san jose state to communic with coach berry. '' 
 thank to it menu system , it 's not hard to imagin capit gainz appeal to the new , small investor . 
 the nile ' special , with ground beef , onion , spinach and swiss chees ( $ 3.95 ) , is a real meal to set you up for a hard day of process word or deal in concept , not to mention ani real work you may have to do . 
 `` it 's hard to say , `` feeney said . 
 it 's hard to say when thing first go wrong for the 25-year-old castro valley chef . 
 `` at the hardest part , take a break and do someth that 's fun and come back to the rest . 
 there was a sens of power and charisma about him that is hard to define. '' 
 chang some of their hit to an acoust arrang for the current tour was n't as hard as they thought it would be , oat say . 
 from the top - san jose comput engin eric larsen may have surviv a shark attack while surf off davenport in juli , but the economi 's bite is harder to dodg . 
 from the highway , you can see the outlet center sign , but it 's hard to see the center itself . 
 `` those hour were hard for me . 
 it 's hard to think about leav peopl and a place from which i ve deriv such enorm satisfact . 
 buckley has impress them with her patienc and determin , but may not fulli realiz how hard it will be just to go home again . 
 it 's realli hard to tell . 
 it 's hard not to hope . 
 `` take no notic , `` he said cheerili of his quasimodo outfit , though it was hard not to . 
 `` that way , it 's harder for them to point finger '' when thing do n't work , king say . 
 it may be hard to imagin anyon from the cast of abc 's `` carter countri '' earn an oscar nomin , but griffith did for 1989 's `` work girl , `` move into the front rank of movi star . 
 for exampl , the success of talent black figur in the cultur industri -- such as bill cosbi , oprah winfrey , spike lee and arsenio hall -- is not simpli the result of their hard work and excel ; it is also the result of an unpreced open of white america to black human . 
 it is hard to imagin how that puni fire you had so much troubl start , and struggl to keep go , could creat such a big problem until you realiz that about 1 million ton of wood are burn in more than 700 , 000 bay area fireplac and stove each winter . 
 but have admit so mani of the failur of central plan these past few year , it may be harder to put the idea of market-ori econom reform back in the bottl . 
 oftentim the hardest part of decor a room is put in the finish touch . 
 design is hard to beat for timber hunt or for pack in a saddl scabbard . 
 after all , his dallas-bas mesa limit partnership lost $ 209 million last year , so it 's hard not to be humbl . 
 it was so hard to shoot , we lost our origin end '' -- someth connor did n't know until he went to a recent rough cut view of the film . 
 the essenti activ , persist and , at time , person involv by the presid may be hard to sustain as his domest and intern agenda compet for time and attent . 
 it never was hard for hosin to lose himself in the sport . 
 we re have a hard time get them together. '' 
 `` it is hard to say if anyth in the bulletin-board world has reach that level , where it is privat but somehow take on a public qualiti , `` rose say . 
 the look : our victori red test vehicl was hard to miss . 
 sure , it 's hard to accept the fact that , after spend year studi to take on challeng career such as architect , or communic profession , or market execut , the onli actual posit you ve been offer is drink fountain gum remov . 
 my brother told me that he heard from an electron technician that 8mm camcord are harder and more cost to fix . 
 by the time he becam the frontman for the administr 's effort to stigmat civil right bill as `` quota '' legisl and to overturn constitut protect against arbitrari search and seizur , it was hard to recogn the man he had onc been . 
 `` it 's hard to do what you want to do when you have one. '' 
 most notabl , malon repeat contend that an `` angri '' secur and exchang commiss went out of it way to give mip a hard time , badger the compani with endless question about the prospectus and request dozen of chang . 
 and , he ad , `` without financ , those compani have a hard time grow to a point where they will ever qualifi for bank loans. '' 
 it is hard to stay sad about the death of theodor geisel , becaus he invent so mani antidot for the poison of sad . 
 that song featur the sweet-voic ball and the raucous barton on a call-and-respons refrain : `` when you re all alon -- '' / `` without love. '' / `` it 's so hard to go on ! `` / `` night are long . . . `` ; produc rebennack play organ , piano , percuss and guitar on the album . 
 in addit , santos-killin say it 's hard for the group to take their volunt board member and turn them into effect fund-rais . 
 `` that 's the hardest part of do thing like this ; you do n't anticip how much will realli happen. '' 
 with more single-par household and more mother in two-par famili who work outsid the home , it 's harder for parent to squeez in time to meet with teacher , mineta ad . 
 `` it 's hard for us to work in a place that 's generic. '' 
 lotteri offici , meanwhil , have attribut sale declin larg to hard econom time . 
 but nobodi know where a spare $ 200 million can be found , and 20 percent fee increas are hard to sell , although the univers of california -- untrammel by the legislatur -- is go for 40 percent . 
 that hole has alway been hard for me to make par on . 
 this can be unsettl and also make it veri hard to know where the bid is . 
 `` it 's go to be hard for ani doctor but him to read my mris , `` he said . 
 now it 's hard to find a garlic detractor anywher , especi this weekend when the gilroy garlic festiv attract it own special brand of deadhead . 
 yes , a lot of mda 's client ( not necessarili `` patient '' ) are kid , but do you know how hard it is to becom , and be treat as , a self-respect disabl adult in this societi ? 
 `` even if we occupi iraq , we 'd have a hard time find everyth , `` said gari milhollin , a nuclear arm specialist . 
 `` it 's hard for us becaus we want to be like the averag peopl . 
 `` a few peopl tri to give me a hard time , `` he said . 
 i continu my assault on the door , but without ani peripher vision , it 's hard to line up the hound head with the open . 
 uncoupl can be civil even if break up is hard to do . 
 `` i kept hear peopl complain how hard it was to order lunch after 1 or 2 p.m. , `` say asher-tourn , the former chief chef at san francisco 's carnelian room , so his lunch `` hour '' now stretch from 1 to 5 p.m . 
 it 's hard to imagin that we could feel affection toward each other work on the bill or our hit-or-miss effort at a budget , and some day the best we can do is exercis patienc with each other . 
 for worker at bart 's cash-handl build , the ironi is almost too hard to bear . 
 `` it 's hard to imagin pete wilson without otto bos. '' 
 name are hard to hear , especi if rush . 
 congression aid conced the grow possibl that final action on the crime packag may have to be delay until the start of a presidenti elect year when compromis are often harder to reach . 
 pinedo say he 's learn the hard way that live with hiv can be a roller-coast ride . 
 ( check ) the new peg system for anchor the net still allow movement of the post but make the net much harder to dislodg . 
 when you re addict , it 's hard to quit , `` said caitlin kerk , a spokeswoman for the lung associ . 
 arm flail and the wind in my hair , this was n't so hard , i thought , until we slow down again to that dread canter . 
 it would be harder for the person thing , the toilet and all that . 
 ( check ) `` i do n't got no futur realli as a boxer , `` mickey rourk said after his first bout , and it 's hard to believ he has a futur in film , talk like that . 
 `` he ca n't throw yet , and now it 's hard to ride the bike , `` craig said . 
 exact how the financi mess at foothill-d anza ever got this far is hard to understand . 
 singl parent is hard but it beat live with a man who is never wrong and make you feel like noth . 
 if the thing had to be done , it could n't have been done better -- although it 's difficult to understand how the money to build it could be found dure the great depress , while the money to repair crack in the carv is so hard to find today . 
 it 's go to be hard rais a daughter on my own , `` accord to the report . 
 outsid support is hard to come by for christina and other in the teen success program , which is design to help teen mother prevent other unintend pregnanc , motiv them to stay in school and teach them long- and short-term life plan skill . 
 `` it 's hard see your father get taken away . 
 if start seed sound too hard or your garden is veri small , use start seedl in six-pack . 
 `` sometim the simplest dish are the hardest to do becaus the dish has to stand there alon , nake . 
 it 's veri difficult to get peopl to convict someon to begin with , and to get them to convict someon who has good motiv and good intent is a far harder task. '' 
 it 's just that in the two-part open , we do n't get much of a feel for the new folk at the station , and without know how they ll work out it 's hard to say how the show will work out . 
 icarus speak to the younger reader without condescens ; inde , it 's hard to say what it is about icarus that disqualifi it as stimul adult read . 
 it was hard to tell just how rusti holm might have been becaus anderson simpli was no match . 
 `` it 's been veri hard , `` damodar shastri , a priest at the templ , said wednesday . 
 even with the huge rise in new start in santa clara counti , mani develop are still find it hard to obtain financ to build . 
 `` then it get pretti bang up and is kind of hard to hear. '' 
 harold c. simmon is veri rich , veri smart and often veri hard to understand . 
 as test method improv , east german doctor develop a techniqu known as `` bridg , `` in which athlet stop take steroid sever week befor a major event and replac the drug with inject of testosteron , which was quick excret and therefor harder to detect . 
 serious , pictur of dave are hard to come by . 
 but exact how to super serv them is the hard part . 
 `` now that we come forward with the evid , this inform is harder to ignore. '' 
 and although most journalist shi away from cite unnam sourc -- particular such a pivot one -- the rest of matthiessen 's case is airtight , and it is hard to argu with anyth he write here . 
 and it is hard to ignor how vulner a worker can be when he or she depend on the boss for econom surviv . 
 she did not know , but the contrast between these two dark , bent figur collect the hard , dusti weed and the flower garden of plenti around them remain in her mind 's eye for some time and put her out of humour even befor she had reach magda 's flat . 
 it 's veri hard sit here not be abl to do what we can do. '' 
 the strang truth is that 1991 deficit is probabl better than it sound , which would n't be hard , becaus it sound so terribl . 
 bolster , presid of the nation dri bean council , know more than most peopl how hard it is to talk peopl -- and not just kid -- into eat more bean . 
 agreement on project of valu to the whole communiti has long been one of greater miami 's hardest task . 
 pool of talent is smaller ; the reason are hard to pinpoint . 
 it 's much harder to get into law school today than it was even six year ago . 
 random hous , 263 pp. , $ 18.95 ; from mark salzman 's two book we are remind of the follow : truth often is stranger than fiction ; nevertheless , fiction is harder to write . 
 find class will be so hard that terri dicianna , chancellor of hayward 's chabot colleg , predict tri to enrol in his two campus will be like shop in a russian supermarket : 
 `` it 's hard to let go . 
 it is hard to imagin that the presid -- who recent stood on the expans lawn of a roman villa and declar that the unit state is not in recess -- regular shop at j.c. penney . 
 `` it 's hard for me to believ that those three babi are ours. '' 
 i have a hard time believ that i 'm almost 90. '' 
 it 's veri hard to be here . 
 talk radio is a hard format to sell to advertis , especi when your communiti 's small busi are cut corner to rebuild from an earthquak . 
 i believ the hardest task we have right now is build a consensus among the smaller citi and counti . 
 it 's hard to argu with that kind of decis , and hard not to admir a new hotel that sell older wine at fair price . 
 albert feel the same way , although it 's hard , he say , to let go of the memori of the old hous . 
 while it 's hard to argu that desk-top comput have n't boost individu product , comput system can creat as much troubl as benefit . 
 iraq surpris the expert by use a well-known , old-fashion , unclassifi and hard-to-detect technolog in it pursuit of high enrich uranium , the heart of ani atom weapon . 
 chicago conting of modern critic follow aristotl so far in this direct that it is hard to see how they can compar one poem with anoth for the purpos of evalu . 
 `` it is hard to fathom . 
 true , it is hard to imagin a la recherch without charlus ; yet it is at least arguabl that , if proust had made charlus a woman , and albertin a perfect normal heterosexu girl , the novel would have been , qua novel , neither better nor wors than it is . 
 onc insid the bodi it is hard to extract and caus perman damag . 
 what 's so terribl about that ? ' `` ; in the 1990s , it 's hard to pull off all this 1940s blind passion without fall into self-parodi . 
 `` that 's aw hard to do against a ballclub like the pittsburgh pirat , `` he said . 
 it 's hard to tell whether scaffold that mark some build is for repair or new construct : the architectur conform regardless . 
 even if the citi council approv the project tonight , as expect , the hardest part is still to come . 
 it 's veri hard to screw down a lid on a societi that has seen as much relat freedom as the soviet union has seen in the last coupl of year , `` lyman said . 
 it 's hard to tell you whi i like `` the torkelsons. '' 
 is it realli much harder to believ david duke than it is to believ that ted kennedi is sensit to the concern of women , or that clarenc thoma never voic his opinion about abort ? 
 that was a differ problem : music with so much baggag that it was hard to find caniparoli 's choreographi . 
 `` the first two year out were even harder than be in prison , `` castillo said . 
 they had n't expect to worri about such somber matter as will so earli in their live , but it was n't so hard realli , they said . 
 some of them he learn the hard way , `` said huntsvill pitch coach bert bradley . 
 diner will have a hard time spend more than $ 5 or $ 6 for a good , full meal here . 
 `` i had somewhat of a hard time right afterward , `` said woodcock , who was a 6-3 , 260 pound defens lineman for the detroit lion from 1976 to 1980 and for the san diego charger in 80 and 81 . 
 still , it is hard not to be impress by the e . 
 calcul the loss of attorney ' fee is a bit harder . 
 ( check ) it 's hard to flatten pet food and tuna can becaus they have a round lip on the bottom . 
 onc he get go , he 's hard to stop . 
 thus , if baker doe not find a way to resolv the question of palestinian represent , it is hard to see how a confer can begin . 
 the hard life of polit it is well known that no platform nor ani program advanc by either major american parti has ani purpos beyond express emot '' . 
 along with their parent , they re scrambl to stay upright in this wind-driven world , and sometim that 's hard ; sometim they get knock down . 
 an hour 's perus of our nation charter make it hard to understand what the argle-bargl is about . 
 `` when you deal with that kind of ( margin of ) error , it 's hard to say what 's happen , `` said dr. michael mare , a zoologist at the univers of oklahoma who is an expert on central and south american tropic habitat . 
 mcdonnel think she got the backbon she need as an actress becaus she was a competit swimmer when she was grow up : `` it was n't hard for me to develop the idea of disciplin and pressur and have to be readi at the moment the whistl blow , and you re on. '' 
 back in the hall of parliament , the polit leader dedic to lead their nation into independ say they know it is hard for their peopl now . 
 `` the hardest thing for me is if someon die , `` say young . 
 it is not hard to imagin this lead to a confront like one that occur in 1968 between then secretari of state dean rusk and abc newsman john scali . 
 it 's hard to know how to react to such tidbit . 
 hodg has marvel presenc , but she 's so angri it 's hard to like her . 
 hard for the therapist to grasp are those instanc in which the patient is manifest an introject traceabl to someth in the therapist , some aspect of the therapist of which the latter is himself onli poor awar , and the recognit of which , as a part of himself , he find distinct unwelcom . 
 we met a barrel of rich men but it 's hard to find the real thing when you re young , beauti and the toast of two contin '' . `` 
 while all will have roof over their head , moriarti said the fire will make it harder for his group to find afford , independ live arrang for former psychiatr patient . 
 `` i 'm sure it was a littl hard for some guy to swallow when they look at the qualifi sheet and saw she had finish ahead of them. '' 
 emot , it would be too hard to tri it again. '' 
 there 's probabl a silli look on his face , although it 's hard to tell with insect . 
 make a new machin and send out offici of duli ascertain fit for a great work of social reform is no child 's task ; but this task was even harder , for a new central organ had to be fit on a heterogen and confus but alreadi exist system of relief and control of ex-slav ; and the agent avail for this work must be sought for in an armi still busi with war oper , -- men in the veri natur of the case ill fit for delic social work , -- or among the question camp follow of an invad host . 
 their crew are face hard choic as they seek navi billet elsewher , ashor or at sea . 
 was shout and breath hard and close his fist on the pillow . 
 becaus depression-glass kitchen item are increas hard to find , faria often buy just one piec of an item at a time . 
 `` most parent have a hard time leav a child at a child care center , and the parent who work at syntex are abl to reassur one anoth , `` samoff said . 
 it would be hard to imagin anyon not feel emot about the tragedi that occur on the sacramento river , but to those who knew the river , it is overwhelm . 
 becaus of the panoram format , you may have a hard time keep the horizon level . 
 it was hard to settl on just three entre , as i was also tri to negoti the bangkok chicken linguin ( $ 7.95 ) with marin chicken breast , julien carrot , green onion and roast peanut in a thai-peanut-ging sauc . 
 for sheer spirit , it 's hard to imagin how we ll top it when our own arena open in two year . 
 mayb , although it 's hard to see how they re anywher near as good as they re play . 
 as for `` becaus it is bitter , `` `` i just rememb how hard it was to write . 
 `` this has been the most thrill year of my life and the hardest. '' 
 `` but it 's hard convinc peopl that they re wrong. '' 
 the stori goe back three year when `` susan '' was pregnant with twin and have a hard time do her housework and laundri . 
 `` it 's hard to go into detail , `` appl 's chief financi offic , joseph a. graziano , said in an interview this week . 
 as hard as it is to believ , with the except of wait ' well-nam wolfi , no one leav much of an impress . 
 the game was n't out of the ordinari by a 's standard at 3 hour , 18 minut , but it 's hard to believ good pitch could look this bad . 
 it seem hard to believ that nanci reagan , the former first ladi best known for her love of expens cloth and eleg parti , could have play a central role in fashion the polici of the reagan administr . 
 is harder , he mutter , to medit on man ( or woman ) than on god . 
 q : was it hard to get the music communiti to take you serious after keith partridg ? 
 `` there were peopl there , the fire burn from there , it 's hard to imagin ani other possibl , `` he said . 
 `` it 's realli hard to put it in one word like that. '' 
 ( box ) to start a screw in a hard-to-reach spot , push the screw through a slit in a piec of mask tape , adhes side up . 
 `` it 's so great know a woman who actual know how hard the field is , who has travel the road , who encourag me . 
 q what hard decis will your successor have to make ? 
 deni women combat experi , ireland right note , make it harder for them to climb up the militari career ladder . 
 the sound of sappi ; meanwhil , over on the network , it would be hard to think of a stupider-sound seri titl than `` the torkelson , `` the down-hom sitcom that make it debut tonight on nbc . 
 schrader said there 's plenti of overtim to go around becaus the job are extrem demand and it 's hard to keep employe . 
 `` there are so mani of them articl carri on about my chest that it 's hard for peopl to look at me in the face anymor . 
 i found the beatif and beam randal harder to stomach than the demon version , who unload on his divorc mother ( jobeth william in the latest in a seem endless string of thankless support role ) and favor his obnoxi absente father ( christoph mcdonald of `` thelma & louis '' ) . 
 the arrang make it hard for an upstart firm to break in , sinc it must take these cost out of profit , equiti or borrow . 
 player are awar of this paradox ; it 's one reason they often tend to keep non-play at a distanc -- they know it look easi and they know how hard it is . 
 it 's much harder than do someth total out in left field with no regard ( for sale ) . 
 among the believ gather to wit this pass- ( box ) scale sacr peak , page 9c ; ( box ) seder for soviet emigr , page 9c ; ( box ) church battl over mayan , page 9c ; ing , parallel to the easter stori are hard to ignor . 
 it 's hard to say what mandela , notic grim-fac next to his jubil , fist-rais wife as they left the courthous , will do if her convict is upheld . 
 lord , it 's hard to have one child over there . 
 `` we had a veri hard winter here . 
 `` you ll have a hard time sensation ( the stori ) this month , `` said cuddi , manag of the los alto offic of sevill properti . 
 `` the way they just went out and roll over peopl when everybodi was after them realli impress me becaus that 's so hard to do , `` she said . 
 `` noth about this is go to be easi , `` said lt. col. hu blazer , a u.s. armi mainten battalion command who learn the hard way in vietnam the limit of air support in a ground war . 
 the object under construct is rare if ever worth complet for itself , nor is some immedi justif for discontinu the work -lrb- e.g blunt tenon-saw or shortag of 1 1/2 screw -rrb- hard to find . 
 it 's hard to get a good pictur of what happen when you emerg from bankruptci court . 
 it 's hard to imagin when view st. john 's forward malik seali 's fluid and product style of play that the bronx , n.y. , nativ lack the confid as a teen-ag to play the citi game . 
 is it get harder in this time of layoff and budget cutback for the boss to get along with employe ? 
 it 's hard share a dement sens of humor . 
 dure the long , dr. zhivago winter , life get even harder outsid the citi , and mani soviet port freez shut . 
 katz said that though the unit state `` wo n't pull the plug '' on deal alreadi complet , it obvious will be hard to extend credit in the futur unless thing chang in the baltic . 
 even though it 's hard to specul what realli happen to the lord mayor 's appoint or elect , if one were a wager man it would be worth bet a drachma or two that lawrenc of stone found a way to becom king . 
 it 's hard to fume and yawn at the same . 
 `` it was real hard get start again , `` say hauser , laugh . 
 whi one can not predict that some of our children and perhap all of them will experi the same sort of reaction after similar train is hard to understand , yet so convinc are educ that aesthet experi is no more than a caprici and individu matter of tast that they find this sort of evid unconvinc . 
 it might be even harder to concentr with a big lead . 
 stolen chip hard to trace ; when the stolen chip infiltr the market -- mix in with legitim sold chip -- they becom extrem difficult to trace , polic say . 
 but she 's have a hard time get white men to believ that . 
 with the nation case count climb toward 200 , 000 , it 's hard to cling to the naiv belief that life is under our complet control . 
 but vice princip len jacqu said student are not allow to promot polit positions. ( dot ) page 1b ; busi ; more busi news ( dot ) section d ; recess has hit state ; far harder than first thought ; california has lost 240 , 000 job dure the recess , near seven time greater than earlier estim , state offici report . 
 `` prematur death is alway hard to accept . 
 `` it 's hard for me to believ '' that the fact bush is a son of the presid did n't play a role in ryan 's decis , said rep. bruce f. vento , d-minn . 
 on one hand , it 's hard to leav a success seri ; on the other hand there are other thing she want to do . 
 con maloney , who own the jackson met befor the team pull out last year , said , `` to believ they told their peopl to maim someon , that would be aw hard for me to accept . 
 the propos measur also would make it harder to obtain visa , reinforc personnel at immigr post and set tougher penalti for employ who use illeg immigr worker . 
 after the war , we will discov a vast pool of anti-saddam feel among iraqi not in his secret polic ; inde , it may be hard to find a saddam support among the myriad `` good '' iraqi who will swear they did not know anyth about the atroc against the kurd . 
 `` if you make it too hard for the tenant it is n't go to work , `` cobb said . 
 when i ask peopl nearbi to keep their radio off , they act like i am crazi and give me a hard time . 
 it 's hard to imagin mr. burman as a nobel laureat on the basi of these charm but not realli moment fabl . 
 the hard part is choos which util packag to buy . 
 `` duct tape is veri hard to get fingerprint from , `` said pennington . 
 was certain now that it would be no harder to bear her child here in such pleasant surround than at home in the big white hous in haverhil . 
 but becaus it jump from one locat to anoth -- through no fault of it own ; blame redevelop and an earthquak -- it was sometim hard to track . 
 as the most tan , most blond young men board the yacht for a tour of alcatraz , it was hard to imagin them live somewher other than in california . 
 `` i know i had a hard time focus . 
 probabl was n't hard for him to keep his nose to the grindston with noth but edyth to come home to . 
 frank , it 's hard to imagin barbara bush expos her shoulder in one of these dress , but on mani women it could be a flatter look . 
 where all the blame should rest , it is hard to say ; whether the bureau and the bank die chiefli by reason of the blow of it selfish friend or the dark machin of it foe , perhap even time will never reveal , for here lie unwritten histori . 
 fish and recreat group are push hard to gain access . 
 it 's hard , even , to rememb what bcci mean ( bank of credit and commerc intern , actual ) . 
 `` he 's a hard charact becaus he 's so power , but he 's also kind of soft-spoken , `` she said . 
 an easi laugh may be hard to find , but we were determin to locat a decent comedi club on a recent saturday night . 
 `` it might be hard for some black peopl to tell if this is a slap or not , becaus some black peopl are so use to get slap , `` said public enemi spokesman harri allen . 
 it 's hard to pinpoint whi this happened. '' 
 yet it 's not hard to understand the impuls to procrastin . 
 mani mere mortal have had a hard time understand how ivana -- who has been waver over the settlement -- could just say no to that kind of dough . 
 although nurs in the pediatr depart long to leav their cramp quarter , it will be harder for nurs at the old children 's hospit to say goodby to their comfort adob , red-til roof campus . 
 `` this program is hard work . 
 not a retail by train or natur , ahm said he has learn some hard lesson . 
 `` it was the hardest and most frustrat thing in my life . 
 bermuda is a place where it 's hard to retain the reflex fear that so mani travel are feel , sinc it 's hard to conjur up too mani terrorist in this pastor , peac place . 
 board member jan becerra is hope she wo n't have to make a hard choic between educ the district 's parent and it high school student . 
 had the hardest pain of grow befor him now , as he approach twelv . 
 today , most lay peopl or tourist would have a hard time find ani trace of oil along the sound 's inlet and crag , and mani speci of anim , includ the otter , bald eagl and assort water bird , have bounc back . 
 -- j.d. vanderlaan ; los gato ; do n't let your pet get spook oct. 31 ; halloween is around the corner , a hard time for our four-leg friend . 
 it 's hard to beat free . 
 his music is subtl and soft and , for me , hard to resist . 
 it 's pretti hard , but we have reason price . 
 there are onli seven legitim candid among the 24 game , and it 's not hard to throw out two of them : pittsburgh-lo angel in super bowl xiv and dallas-baltimor in super bowl v . 
 i 'm readi when you are , coach ; nebraska 's punter is mike stigg , but it 's hard to tell . 
 onc you ve master basic polenta -- which is n't so hard to master -- you can top it with a varieti of sauc . 
 it 's not hard to believ this is the album lynyrd skynyrd would have made if not for that 1977 plane wreck . 
 it 's relat easi to run plumb to first-floor bath through a basement or crawl space underneath , but it get harder on upper floor , where there may not be enough space between the floor and ceil to instal pipe proper . 
 becaus of the use of special terminolog , the newer mathemat subject may be meaningless to teacher in the school -lrb- or even to some univers mathematician -rrb- , but this doe not necessarili make them harder for the student . 
 the busi qualiti of the pattern integr odd-shap space that are hard to unifi , such as a bedroom , dress room and bath or a room with eav and beam at odd angl . 
 one of the key to develop a nest egg so you can be financi independ is to `` pay yourself '' each month , which is as hard to do as stop smoke or lose weight , young say . 
 arab in the anti-iraq coalit also are find it hard to resist a feel of melancholi about this iraqi enemi -- fellow soldier on the receiv end of a lopsid pummel from the sky . 
 `` be a coach off campus is veri hard , `` tobeck said . 
 it 's hard enough drive . 
 but he had a hard time persuad cash-strap compani to pay him to reinvent their wheel . 
 that littl guy ; `` it 's hard becaus peopl want to know you re a certain thing , `` he say . 
 yet , surpris , they introduc an insidi frailti in the information-process chain which is hard to fathom . 
 `` they keep say ( the turtl are n't real ) , but i find that hard to believ , `` he say . 
 `` it 's pretti hard to get a big head when you get these strang look and catcalls. '' 
 notic of meet often are bore and hard to understand , she said . 
 the match was hard to make . 
 `` this is what 's hard , `` she said , slip her patient a coupl of biscuit , which he gobbl down in second . 
 so when continent decre that women must paint their face , it would have been hard to find a more suitabl challeng . 
 but hammer is right : it 's hard to determin what peopl want , and even then , give it to them is a touchi point -- especi when you do n't have much money to get it . 
 after year of think like that , it will be hard for appl programm to feel open and comfort with ibm 's hand on the keyboard , too . 
 which , given the circumst , was not that hard to do . 
 now , `` it 's hard to find ani real pocket of strength '' in the sector , said economist gilbert benz of the swiss bank corp. in new york . 
 in privat interview with district administr , central servic manag , account leader and other repres , the auditor heard the same stori : `` the chancellor is hard to work for ; he shoot messengers. '' 
 `` this game is so hard , `` william said . 
 but given the consider sovereignti assum in the interim by most republ govern , it is hard to visual how deputi from republ like ukrain can be persuad to attend a new session . 
 `` it was hard to sit there and listen to everyth about the defend and noth about our love ones. '' 
 it seem like a normal , sane person would start easi and get warm up befor tackl the harder anagram . 
 it make their grim futur as pawn of humankind even harder to take . 
 it 's kind of hard to imagin he did , but sad to think that mayb he did n't . 
 `` i feel there is a certain seren about this locat that 's hard to duplic , `` he said . 
 everi time a cruis missil land and each time an awac plane took off in the persian gulf , it was hard to restrain myself from shout : `` my god , how mani head start slot was that ? 
 the concerto for orchestra is one of our centuri 's classic ; the `` miracul mandarin '' suit , from the danc piec , is harder to bring off , but adam bring out it gutsi passion of the macabr . 
 breakdown in polic disciplin are inevit in everi depart , but the public hear littl of it becaus intern investig and polic shield law make inform hard to get . 
 recip for the special sauc are hard to find , but jamawatr was gracious enough to share her . 
 `` it 's hard not know when your futur 's go to arriv , `` said coonerti on thursday . 
 make the t-1000 move like a believ human be was one of their hardest task . 
 and a report who heard someon say someth damag , but did not have a tape record run , might have a much harder time convinc an editor to publish the quot . 
 it 's realli hard to continu work there becaus no one come up and say 'i know what 's happen , ' even though i know everyon know it is . 
 brown trout , the hardest fish in the lake to catch , also are caught by toplin with rebel or rapala accord to martin . 
 it 's hard not to hear reno . 
 be tough is obvious a lot harder when your subject is right next to you rather than stare into a camera in a differ room . 
 then again , it would be hard not to improv if the onli thing you can do in practic is shoot free throw . 
 and she would tell her father , colleg professor alann steen , how hard it has been dure his 4 1/2 year of captiv to guard her emot . 
 my work schedul made it hard to go along and my wife said i should n't make the effort becaus i would n't `` fit in. '' 
 it 's hard for me to rememb now the first impress , i ve seen the movi so often . 
 seifert , who is 36-11 as a head coach and perhap learn a number of hard but necessari lesson these day , will need to evalu his assist with the idea of alter some respons , if not the cast . 
 the hardest part is know the threat exist for your whole life. '' 
 diet woe ; oh , it 's hard to diet when all around you are munch constant . 
 these chang could occur in all or just some of your hair follicl , stenn said , so it is hard to say how dramat differ your silver hair will be . 
 it was hard to imagin anyth of byrn 's match the eleg simplic of copland 's pastor ode . 
 `` think about how hard it is to get these joe to use a condom when they know they could die from a coital act , `` say gabriel baili , director of the contracept develop branch of the nation institut of health in washington , d.c . 
 ( box ) `` take it on faith that the first five year are veri , veri difficult , that the first one is particular hard and that your first job will probabl not be the ultim job. '' 
 `` it 's go to make it realli hard for work and non-tradit student to continu their educ , and it 's go to make mani student ceas their education. '' 
 it would be hard for the state to say where . 
 from liz smith in new york ; a love letter ' first : it 's hard to believ , but over the past two year and the countless product of a.r. gurney 's `` love letter '' that have been perform both here and abroad , the two-charact play has never featur an interraci coupl . 
 it 's hard to keep come up with incent to keep you focus on your bodi . 
 `` the game here are hard , but fair , `` say santa cruz high junior mike mcguin , now in his third year at the boardwalk . 
 the democrat propos is intend to overturn 1989 suprem court rule that civil right lawyer say make it harder for plaintiff to win employ discrimin suit . 
 `` a low-cost produc like bofa can do a lot better , but it 's hard to get the return on equiti that 's exceptional. '' 
 it would be hard to ask for more . 
 short of station peter arnett atop kelley 's roof in georgetown , in fact , it is hard to imagin more of an all-out blitz to get to the bottom of the big stori -- or at least the big question . 
 hour after hour last week , it was hard not to sympath with the woman known on most channel as the `` alleg victim. '' 
 thirti year with unit way are hard to shake . 
 hors and hound have had a hard time in go like porridg , and except long day , and even in the bigger establish there are sign of wear-and-tear . 
 `` i tri not to think about it but with everybodi ask me about it it 's hard not to , `` maddox said . 
 `` it will be hard for all of us to see some wonder , passion and talent employe leav the company. '' 
 `` it 's hard to explain , to put into word , `` becker said of reach the top of the rank . 
 `` rememb how hard it was to catch ( former panamanian presid manuel ) noriega ? 
 gentl reader -- sure it is hard enough to get someon to pass the potato , without the ad burden of poll them on how they feel about it . 
 `` hous was hard to find , and there was a vacant bed in the hous . 
 `` look , this medal is a lot harder to wear than it is to earn , `` say former boatswain 's mate 1st class elliott william , now a 60-year-old retir u.s. marshal from palm coast , fla . 
 `` and even if i were readi for the risk , the law here are alway confus and contradictori , and it 's hard to believ that what is true for today will be true for tomorrow . 
 sinc then , it has becom hard to detect a heartbeat at some u.s. hotel . 
 it 's not onli hard on the women , but children who lack a secur famili life suffer a lot . 
 bark is loud , noisi , repetit , easi to locat and hard to ignor . 
 the blackhawk have 12 new face on their roster , and some of the player are have a hard time understand the logic of move made by mike keenan , the team 's coach and general manag . 
 for exampl , flat-panel display have becom an import part of the chain , and if we get decim in it and the japanes or anoth parti domin it , it will be veri hard to keep the rest of the chain go . 
 and it will be hard for presid f.w. de klerk to pardon her without inflam the passion of right-w white and perhap quit a few black . 
 `` it 's hard not to think of win , but you tri to get it out of your mind as quick as you can , `` he said . 
 `` it 's a veri interest place to work , but i can see whi some peopl have a hard time imagin what it 's like , `` say nate gossett . 
 with that feel , if you do n't feel bad about what you re do , if you do n't feel guilti , it 's hard to be a crimin . 
 it 's hard to believ , but it 's true . 
 `` thing like friend , `` keef said , tri to explain his decis to remain at stanford , `` it 's hard to assign a dollar figur to that. '' 
 the citi will have a hard time replac him with someon of equal calib . 
 the paradox is that babyc promot a hard-to-get servic . 
 first report said the town of dzhava , 60 mile northwest of the georgian capit of tbilisi , was hardest hit . 
 howev the recess end , poverti specialist say , signific number of poor and unemploy peopl are go to have a harder time get past this econom downturn than the longer , harsher recess of the earli 1980s . 
 `` i had to learn it the hard way , but i 'm still just a countri girl . 
 of the hardest chore a detect has is hang around on a citi street , tri to make himself inconspicu , keep an eye on the entranc of an offic build and wait . 
 one 46-year-old woman , who had just been laid off from a 14-month temporari job at a local electron compani , said posit in her field are much harder to find now than dure the last nation recess . 
 the umpir said it was hard have to work sunday night 's game . 
 `` it is hard to say how mani children need care , `` said helen blank , a senior child care associ in the non-profit famili support divis of the children 's defens fund , base in washington , d.c . 
 but they multipli so rapid that it is hard to tell how long they will take to becom numer enough to destroy veget and nurseri stock . 
 but dos is too hard to use , so window is put on top of it . 
 but even if you live around the corner , it 's hard to help while handl other respons . 
 without know the peopl involv , it 's hard to tell whether fair is racist . 
 it 's a hard book to adapt , but i think this might be the right time for it . 
 it 's hard enough for folk to pay all their bill in these tri econom time without have to pay to replac smash window , too . 
 it 's veri hard to explain . 
 it 's hard to give up that kind of easy-money lifestyl , say rhonda owen , a doll hous manag . 
 that 's too bad , becaus it send the wrong messag to the network budget slasher , who will make each succeed intern crisi harder to cover . 
 it 's hard to believ that more good fiction could be scrabbl out of those 669 squar mile of red clay , but brown is equal to the challeng . 
 ready-to-drink red wine are sometim hard to find , which is whi mirassou 's non-vintag lot no. 4 zinfandel is welcom . 
 and manag an institut across the countri might be hard . 
 of cours , it 's hard to shake the defeatist mental that exist in cleveland . 
 it 's hard to tell from the synops whether the seri will wrap up with a neat end or a lot of loos end still unti . 
 virtual unemploy in the 50s , as either writer or director , sturg conclud : `` it appear that i had develop a reput for be too expens and hard to handl to boot . 
 one thing that is hard to track is mainten . 
 he said it is harder for compani to achiev dramat cutback becaus job and econom well-b are often relat to water consumpt . 
 but bushman and other say the hardest part is not simpli submit the draw and applic to the counti . 
 it 's not hard for john dotter to draw his own conclus . 
 `` it 's realli hard to believ , `` edberg said of his fifth career grand slam titl and his first of 1991 . 
 prime minist p.v. narasimha rao told india on saturday that it face a serious econom crisi that could onli be resolv by hard decis , new foreign invest and an end to the ineffici that crippl the countri 's growth . 
 that 's the hardest part of this job , talk to extrem smart peopl who have forgotten how to speak english . 
 `` it 's been hard on some of the student here , especi after the cori gordillo incid , `` princip david duncan said . 
 `` the first coupl of day were hard . 
 she slip into the famili as though she belong there , but the adjust was hard anyway . 
 as i wade into this year 's batch of christma goodi , it 's hard to be too empathet . 
 it 's hard to rememb the detail , but i look at the instrument and could n't see them for the smoke. '' 
 `` it 's hard for peopl to rememb to turn off the light in those big hall , especi when they think other are come in , `` miller said . 
 but at the same time , most peopl will say irv is sort of hard to get to know. '' 
 the lack of attent paid morri is n't that hard to understand . 
 the first step , chamber say , is get the orchid plant out of the pot , and this can be harder than it sound if the root complet fill the pot . 
 palm ; it 's hard to tell whether a damag palm will pull through , carman say . 
 this is familiar ground , and it is hard to see how the distinct can be rigor carri through ; `` have an independ mean '' is probabl equival to the fact that a gloss can be given by a nativ speaker to the word in isol , and this is like to be a matter of degre rather than of a binari divis into two class . 
 thing are harder for the music inclin . 
 `` onc the time chang occur , it 's hard to make nighttim practic , `` he say . 
 `` when you lay em flat , they re hard to see , `` dolli varga explain . 
 `` she call me at home and said , 'i know it 's a hard time , but we were just wonder if we could expect you back to work or not , ' `` adam say . 
 `` did n't arti call the theater and say 'i better be treat fair , or they ll be blown away ? ' `` ; bajo repli , `` what he realli said was someth like -- excus my languag -- 'f -- - em up. ' `` ; mariah found it hard to understand how this could set off her uncl jim . 
 or mayb it 's just hard for a bar band to be a bar band in a rehears , pack amphitheat show . 
 laird point out , though , that `` it 's hard to keep a handl on statist . 
 it is as if a gray spot has cover up these topic , too , make it hard to see clear . 
 it 's hard enough bring up a child with a partner to help , much less alon , which is whi onli half of the women who go to the network 's meet consid the rout go ahead with it . 
 `` but the bottom line is i lost in the first round , so it 's hard to get over positive. '' 
 also , fewer qualifi peopl are enter the workforc , so it 's harder to find high skill worker . 
 which onli made 16-year-old richi silva jr. 's death in a 1984 traffic accid that much harder to accept . 
 so onc again it come to hard choic for women and their famili . 
 `` it 's never easi to say you were in jail , and to say it was under those circumst was so veri hard , `` said stanley toshio hara , a retir ford motor co. worker who live in berryessa . 
 `` it 's hard to comment on anyth we have n't seen , `` she said . 
 `` it 's harder to get peopl to stop drive cars. '' 
 he who fill that role will be hard-press to match the number amass by charl , who earn a scholarship to divis ii portland state . 
 it 's hard for me to understand the justic there , `` rita baumann , presid of the blue earth counti human societi , said of the sentenc by nicollet counti district judg warren litynski . 
 `` it 's realli hard to believ the yanke wo n't take him , `` brock said . 
 `` we have a hard time do anyth together. '' 
 `` it 's hard to tell what the futur will bring . 
 even hurley say : `` it 's hard to believ we can come out posit in that matchup. '' 
 becaus it 's so hard to read : to appreci a novel , to get ironi , to get joke , and all that , you have to be an extrem good reader . 
 but 500 year later it 's hard to keep straight what came from where . 
 no mortar shell ; the marin stuck on hill 99 also point out that it would be hard to serv as a deterr , sinc they have littl or no ammunit . 
 `` it 's that ephemer , hard-to-pin-down sens of feel better when you exercis , `` say judi mahl lutter , presid of the melpomen institut , a nation organ that research women 's health issu , base in st. paul , minn . 
 for about $ 5 a bottl , it 's hard to beat . 
 fast-ris countri music star lorri morgan understand two thing well : how to sing and write hit song and how hard it is be a work mom . 
 it 's hard to believ peopl were onc abl to do that without a trace of ironi . 
 women rape by men they know -- either a date or anoth male acquaint -- have a much harder time recov from the trauma than women who are rape by stranger , recent research show . 
 `` it 's hard to defin broad zone . 
 `` it 's still hard to believ , `` wallac william said wednesday even , clutch his son 's photograph in the dim light live room of his oakland apart . 
 `` it 's hard for either jami or i to replac brent , `` wall said . 
 it 's hard to imagin ronni schell star in dead poet societi , team with eddi murphi on saturday night live , or even be a wild and crazi guy -- but then , mayb schell is just too funni for what the citi 's becom . 
 `` our player have done it the hard way to get to 7-3 . 
 `` it 's hard to believ , but there are still some peopl around here who do n't want peopl to know their son or love one die of aid , `` nanez-cedillo said . 
 if , inde , the `` truth '' could be for sale , it would be hard to imagin it better packag for best-sellerdom than here in `` under fire. '' ( box ) 
 `` i ve made a transit in this area , too , although it 's veri hard . 
 the bill would : ; ( box ) revers six 1989 suprem court decis that made it harder for women and member of minor group to win job-discrimin lawsuit against employ . 
 `` it 's hard for a lot of peopl to imagin that thing in their own person environ are hazard to them , `` said adam finkel of resourc for the futur , a washington , d.c. think tank . 
 it 's aw hard to walk in the water . 
 in an age when almost ani repeat activ can be consid an addict , it 's hard not to see video game as the no. 1 obsess of today 's youth . 
 and it is hard to say what winter will bring . 
 it 's hard to believ that the farmer in pierc , neb. , could be so naiv . 
 `` it 's realli hard to tell , `` jackson said . 
 i think it would be hard to explain this kind of variat with a natur object , even a small one. '' 
 gleisher , who ran the advertis campaign in young 's first mayor race , said the polic depart has been `` a person tool of his , `` ad , `` he is go to have a hard time restor confid in it. '' 
 vcrs are flash `` 12 : 00 '' from coast to coast ; last octob , the new york time editori that the hardest part of adjust to the end of daylight save time is reprogram the digit clock on vcrs , coffe maker and microwav oven . 
 seem hard to believ pbs 's `` masterpiec theatr '' will celebr it 20th anniversari this weekend . 
 with the news full of stori of war crime and prison exchang , it 's hard to rememb that there was a time -- not so long ago -- that we were toast the end of the cold war and look forward to `` the peac dividend. '' 
 but it 's hard to keep up , becaus the rtc still has an estim $ 160 billion worth left to sell , plus the asset of hundr of s & ls that are target for takeov dure the next two year . 
 `` it 's hard to find nice cloth on the west coast ; i travel and i buy a lot of my cloth in the east . 
 it 's hard to tell what impact , if ani , these studi have had . 
 `` peopl who are gay will be come back who fought , and the militari will have a hard time explain whi that happen becaus our presenc is suppos to be disrupt in the militari , `` paul di donato , execut director of the san francisco-bas nation gay right advoc . 
 that is n't hard to imagin , especi after they ve seen their presid come beg for notic from indiffer washington . 
 the rate are higher for custom who live in hard-to-reach area of the citi or those who do not place their can at the curb . 
 how israel and the arab state could reassur one anoth enough to disarm is hard to imagin . 
 as libel trial are usual long and expens , news organ tri hard to avoid them . 
 unauthor demand draft are extrem hard to detect becaus they re usual done on high-qual laser printer and look profession , adamski said . 
 the budget cut rais the ire of some palo alto parent , who fear chang in bus servic might make it harder for their children to get to school . 
 when you get in the system , it 's hard to get out . 
 it is veri hard for me to believ that you took the life of ani human be , much less my wife. '' 
 `` time are hard and i need to feed my children , `` said one man , explain whi he turn in three small-calib handgun . 
 `` it 's hard to believ you can lose nine of 10 and then come back with a game like this , `` molitor said . 
 it may have been accident , but when i spun around , he call over his shoulder : `` it 's hard to drive over the media. '' ) 
 `` it 's so hard , i ca n't even begin to tell you , `` said isaac , who 's still look for a full-tim clown job . 
 sinc vietnam and waterg , it has been hard to read a newspap ani morn or listen to the night news without be told of some leader in govern or busi , even the church , violat his trust or the law , then lie about it . 
 the cours is hard enough with ani kind of weather condit . 
 the chang has been hard . 
 fashion trend for men are harder to distinguish year to year , although there appear to be a movement toward casual look . 
 it was hard to develop empathi for theodora and her plaster-saint person . 
 but as an anti-defens organ , it 's hard for now leader to put their heart into such an effort . 
 the prepar may be the hardest part . 
 truli delici but hard to match with food . 
 candid joe huber point out there may not be much differ between mobster and lawyer , but my famili and the voter had a hard time with that one . 
 i have n't yet read the johnson control opinion , but i have a hard time believ the court went that far . 
 make the most of anti-theft technolog , automak are introduc car with high advanc electron control as well as more pedestrian measur : metal that are harder to bend and lock that are tougher to pick . 
 on second thought , it 's not so hard to tell . 
 ask whi it was so hard to get organ , he said : `` this . . . has been a massiv fire and it has been unpredict . 
 `` most of the hard stuff has alreadi been done , `` he said . 
 `` peopl alway ask , what about the children ? ' and i want to say , what about the children ? ' `` say margaret , `` peopl assum they re go to have a hard time. '' 
 `` it 's hard to say exact becaus some senat are alway under 65 and some usual go over , `` cave said . 
 westmont and prospect are among the hardest for most student to reach . 
 she made the hard choic of send him to america , not understand that he was unequip to surviv . 
 he just think it will be hard to prove with current technolog . 
 their beach are still soil , the street are dirti and reliabl domest help is hard to find . 
 it 's a hard task , becaus the new bit look sort of old and old bit look sort of new . 
 the wonder smell of food cook in pastri is so invit it 's hard to beat . 
 as late-afternoon traffic hurtl down mission boulevard from interst 680 and ohlon colleg , it 's hard to believ that just behind mission san jose stand seren the most endur religi institut of educ in southern alameda counti . 
 i must confess that the hardest part of review fratelli deli , for me , is order someth other than their italian combo ( dri salami , mortadella , cotto and provolon , $ 3.75 ) or their godfath sandwich ( turkey breast , salami , mortadella , provolon and italian pepper , $ 4.65 ) . 
 and it 's hard to believ they ve been at it for 15 year use the same three chord . 
 ( check ) a crock of a dish , $ 20 -- `` never smile at a crocodil '' is good advic , but hard to follow onc you see the crocodil butter dish at puttin ' on the ritz , los gato . 
 `` and it 's even harder when you consid what rick has been up against . 
 take up the slack ; q i 'm have a hard time tri to exchang a pair of pant at the eastridg emporium store . 
 but , the choic to refus food and water -- as eula oleson did -- rais this issu : ; how hard should health-car profession tri to chang their patient ' mind ? 
 whatev happen , it 's hard to imagin kim ever work on an assembl line , provid the elbow greas to make product that such nation as the unit state need but are no longer abl to produc econom . 
 `` we had a hard time pin down sex , age or racial discrimin , `` said selig kaplan , foreman of the juri . 
 it 's hard , in a global industri , to determin which car and part are foreign and which are domest . 
 the question of japanes attend at the pearl harbor commemor was a hard call for organ . 
 if you have a hard time not buy , stay out of store , or when you do shop , take onli the money you must have for real need . 
 the program are oper by a mous , featur a lot of color and snazzi graphic , and have extens tutori and other featur to walk user through the hard part . 
 `` it 's harder to find each other anyway when you consid that black are onli 12 percent of the popul , `` said bart landri , a sociolog professor at the univers of maryland and author of a book call `` the new black middl class. '' 
 the empti seat in physic scienc class was a hard lesson for oak grove high school student wednesday , the day after an innoc game took a tragic twist . 
 onc those larg procedur issu are settl , the hard part begin . 
 but in a brief review it is hard to convey the sheer tour-de-forc imageri and dazzl imagin that radiat from this short and simpl novel . 
 if the properti is dedic as park land , it would be hard to swap if that opportun aris again becaus that develop restrict can be lift onli by voter . 
 it 's hard to believ in this market that a condom spot that meet with fox 's approv would n't also meet ktvu 's , but such a thing could happen elsewher . 
 `` it 's hard to say that after a game that may have look a littl ugli , but the element made it tough out there. '' 
 but we no longer face such a hard choic . 
 it 's a hard swallow . 
 broader investig involv the fbi and other agenc take month to organ , so wit forget detail and charg becom harder to prove . 
 `` it 's go to be hard to move on , `` bill said . 
 it 's hard to pick the high point of the show . 
 even get us to help ourselv is hard becaus we tend to keep our problem to ourselv . 
 `` it was hard to leav , and i know lisa was n't happi i had to leav . 
 `` now , imagin how hard it would be to confront someon who was the countri 's chief enforc offic for discrimin , `` said otto . 
 also hard to believ , but san jose comedian doug ferrari , who won the san francisco standup comedi competit in 1984 , will be make his first san jose appear sinc then when he open a six-night run tuesday at the last laugh/san pedro squar . 
 he doe n't seem particular interest in the physic and engin involv ; it 's frequent hard to tell from his descript just what 's go on . 
 `` a 20-year-old barolo , with chicken matton and potato salad with salt-cur black oliv , rosemari , garlic and caper , slather in extra-virgin oliv oil , all accompani by chewi sicilian sesam bread , is not too hard to take . 
 it 's often hard to decid whose side is the good , and whose is the bad . 
 possibl reason for the differ : ; ( box ) physician may consid heart diseas more sever for men ; ( box ) physician may regard the procedur as more promis for men than women ( whose coronari vessel are smaller , harder to bypass ) . 
 `` sometim , a rooki has to learn the hard way , `` padr manag greg riddoch said . 
 garcia said the park worker find it hard to keep up with the drop . 
 ask whether he thought one of the nation 's largest bank could be near collaps , bowsher said : `` just how much troubl they re in is veri hard to determin . 
 this week , the nfl 's lead rusher , barri sander ( 640 yard , seven touchdown ) almost certain will get 25 to 30 carri , make the defens 's job against the run-and-shoot that much harder . 
 they re even harder to live through . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to explain. '' 
 `` you feel bad for somebodi -- but , we were get a babi , so it was hard to feel bad. '' 
 `` it 's hard enough get school work done , and we ve travel a lot . 
 i 'm on the heavi side and hard to fit . 
 `` i tri not to let the pressur get to me , but be from here and all made it hard , `` said acker , who graduat from santa cruz high . 
 for true show-must-go-on dedic , it 's hard to top danc teacher venis taaff , who direct 350 kid from her on your toe danc studio through their recit at the saratoga communiti center -- onli one day after taaff had given birth to her own littl dancer , megan christin , at communiti hospit & rehabilit center of los gatos-saratoga . 
 `` it was n't so hard for me , `` he say . 
 guzman said the pressur of the pennant race is hard to ignor , but he tri to do just that when he 's on the mound . 
 `` it 's get harder to sing ( soprano ) , everi onc in a while it ll crack , `` said rice , who live in fremont . 
 it 's just hard to believ that someon is cast him in this role . 
 life is hard , those peopl said , and then you die . 
 it is hard not to find someon in coultervill who doe not know jenkin or his famili . 
 with the physic train have come other hard lesson that have made women stronger mental . 
 the second hardest are the smoke ham becaus the smoki tast overpow the tast of the wine . 
 as hard as it is for areia and other to fathom , the california retail associ report that loss on credit oper last year total $ 32 million at carter hawley hale , $ 26 million at may co. , $ 14 million at maci 's california and $ 13 million at mervyn 's . 
 `` it 's hard to get peopl veri excit without a militari threat , `` say gaddi smith , a diplomat historian at yale univers . 
 pain as the eros of his skill was , quit the game was harder still . 
 a littl too pack , perhap : with four co-chair and 25 other member , it 's hard to imagin it move quick , even though that 's what hammer want . 
 it 's hard to put a young guy in that predicament. '' 
 although they re hard to decor , the larg entranc hall can take on extra and quit use function . 
 i know the hardest thing he ll have to deal with is be scared. '' 
 is not hard to find that concurr of opinion which fromm find so remark when you ignor all who hold a differ opinion . 
 they were an `` enrich '' sampl , among whom drug effect might be more appar than a random select group but much harder to interpret and analyz . 
 `` this council had a veri hard task after the earthquak , `` said campo , who contend that the council need his busi skill . 
 inde , the fed 's latest survey of bank lend show busi loan , home mortgag and consum credit are continu to becom harder to get . 
 `` unfortun , when you re make a will , it sound great at the time , but it 's go to be a hard decis , `` fellman said . 
 she 's come to term with it , but it 's still hard for her to talk about it. '' 
 unless you can offer equal attract sale term , as your seller is do for you , it might be veri hard to sell that home . 
 lynch had alway thought arbitrageur would be hard to convict on insid trade . 
 thoma h. wilcox , an investig for the nation transport safeti board , said the plane was make a land approach friday night when the pilot encount problem with his radio speaker and had a hard time hear the control tower . 
 when the score is 8-4 , it might be hard to say the game hing on one defens play . 
 `` it 's go to make it hard on a lot of these peopl , `` said ben lairson , 67 , a retir mechan . 
 is it realli that hard to slice butter clean or put it away neat ? 
 as a practic matter , the polici is harder to enforc on domest flight , which do not requir passeng to show passport . 
 becaus ray drive his car to work everi day , we re pretti sure that it doe have an engin , but it 's hard to locat . 
 `` it 's hard becaus you have to hit the ball so high with a driver , `` dali said . 
 over the next few month , the godfath of soul will offer music that 's veri hard to refus . 
 `` my gut reaction is that it was the right thing to do . . . and even look at how hard it was , i would do it again becaus it was the right thing , `` she said . 
 these thing are hard to declin individu . 
 inde , the industri has had a hard time keep up with the continu demand for gulf war item . 
 sue had an appeal , an elus qualiti that was hard to defin . 
 ray hard to studi ; gamma ray , born deep insid atom nuclei , are difficult to studi . 
 i did n't want him to be a black bat ; i want him to be someon with whom the reader could identifi ; someon who has had a hard life. '' 
 still , it is hard not to conclud that this subject get far more attent than is warrant by it actual constitu . 
 popul increas slowli , as though the condit of life were more than usual hard . 
 yes , and would n't it be hard to give up those old smell that linger in memori ? 
 i think probabl the first year would have been the hardest , but that 's onli a guess , `` bruce steen said . 
 even lender of adjustable-r loan , often the onli vehicl for first-tim buyer in high-pric area , are becom harder to get . 
 day and logan show that the a-effect occur with outlin circl but not with filled-in circl : it is hard to see what explan could be offer for this at present . 
 without know that , it is hard to remedi specif problem -- the veri reason for assign regular essay . 
 `` to us , there 's no differ between look for a blood bank supervisor or a chief financi offic -- except that a blood bank supervisor may be harder to find , `` howz say . 
 mobil missil , for instanc , are hard to keep track of , although they must be display under the treati . 
 `` the environ of a combat ship at sea for long period is difficult for men , live accommod are veri close , and privaci is veri hard to ensure. '' 
 it wo n't be easi becaus fund for art group is hard to find these day . 
 it is hard to escap religion in a church , even if educ program are not explicit religi . 
 analyst said that group schneider 's $ 78-a-shar propos , which came in the form of the letter to stead rather than through a formal tender offer , might be hard for squar d 's director to turn down . 
 it 's hard to see how the board can win now . 
 `` for one thing , it 's hard on the mine for them to be idl for so long. '' 
 `` onc you borrow money , it 's hard to pay it back right away , `` he said , say that car payment and rent eat up more than half his $ 2 , 290 month salari . 
 and sinc the pay is n't enough for a deposit on an apart or even a room , it would be hard to mourn it loss . 
 tip : money workshop ; c onsum credit counsel servic of santa clara valley will present a free workshop on manag money dure hard econom time on saturday , april 13 , from 9 a.m. to noon at the sunnyval senior citizen center , 820 mckinley st. , room 201 , sunnyval . 
 that judgment is subject to opinion , but it 's hard not to believ that life in the town is somewhat bizarr . 
 `` it will be a hard winter for the home buyer . '' 
 even so , offens are n't hard to find . 
 `` yet it 's hard to find evid for that , either direct or indirectly. '' 
 becaus thing are kind of panic struck out there , anyway , it 's veri hard to ask an audienc to come in and be more anxious without give them someth in return. '' 
 one , john hageman , who run a small move and storag compani , and who got stif for $ 500 , describ how hard it was to catch up with her , even after win a judgment against her in small claim court . 
 shwe , a real estat broker , will have a hard time shake the `` pro-develop '' label , which seem to be poison in cupertino . 
 it 's realli hard for me to respond becaus it realli doe n't matter to me whether she get a job , get marri or becom a lesbian. '' 
 after the show , mcmillan is feel especi good , though it 's hard to imagin him ever be less than affabl . 
 becaus mani pitcher use a wind-up instead of a stretch in this situat , it is n't hard for a baserunn to pick up the move . 
 prairi dog are littl underground rodent that look kind of like walter cronkit and are sometim consid a hard-to-get-rid-of nuisanc . 
 some tv produc believ stand-up becom , by necess , good actor in order to work success in front of crowd , so the transit to work with other should n't be hard for them . 
 not onli will choic be limit , but with the sever cut to extracurricular activ , student -- through no fault of their own -- will have a hard time convinc privat or out-of-st colleg that they are well-round student . 
 but it 's hard to imagin that other cultur would be abl to divest themselv of sexist stereotyp when a so-cal feminist group ca n't even do it . 
 `` you have so much money and you have to make some hard decis . 
 even though the hardest part of be steve martin is `` you re alway fight for privaci , `` he say he doe n't take his success for grant . 
 as he did , the difficulti of the art of poetri , and believ that the `` onli technic critic worth have in poetri is that of poet '' , he felt oblig to insist upon his duti to be hard to pleas when it came to the review of a book of vers . 
 drexel burnham lambert discov that the hard way . 
 as for the rebel forc now on the offens , the diplomat say they are will to discuss peac and power-shar becaus they feel that addi ababa could prove harder to hold than to captur . 
 `` i had to leav home the last road trip and go join the team becaus it was extrem hard and extrem frustrat , `` he said . 
 keep the part fresh in a long run , harrison suggest , is harder than crack it in the first place . 
 debbi gasparini , market specialist for san francisco-bas levi 's , say the compani doe n't have detail on the survey so `` it 's hard to comment. '' 
 the task is n't hard , and the tree should surviv if you follow seven basic step . 
 `` it 's hard for me to stop them from learn . 
 but the hardest thing to see was that he use a chair for more than a third of his perform . 
 she say drug babi are hard to love becaus they ca n't bond . 
 `` we ve had a hard time keep up with the demand. '' 
 and it 's requir of me that i forgiv , no matter how hard that may be . 
 such a tradit lie behind the iliad and the odyssey , at least , is hard to deni . 
 even in chicago , as she clutch bottl of champagn press on her by friend who want to share in the celebr , kit sutherland seem to find it hard to grasp that her father was realli free . 
 the council member said peacock 's experi and abil would be hard to replac , but they also state their action was meant as a show of support for the staff assembl by peacock . 
 `` it 's hard enough to make the decis to take someon 's life , but when you do n't have all the evid , it 's an outrag , `` juror jill darmer told report befor the hear . 
 `` but it was hard to put a finger on it , becaus everyth sound so nice . 
 `` it 's realli hard to know who is go to be compet , becaus it depend which girl each club decid to bring -- you know , who 's hurt , who went to the last competit , `` he said . 
 some band are hard to classifi . 
 as for disturb the peac , banzhaf note : `` it 's hard to argu that men who paid admiss to see 8-foot genit on the screen would have their peac disturb by see a small genit next to them. '' 
 she say a dog 's scent scare wildlif from the trail , and without a leash , it may be hard to control a dog that meet up with a bear . 
 becaus of the hard choic , schneiter recommend that the council studi all the altern in the controversi traffic plan befor them . 
 `` whi is it so hard to get the nation republican leadership to face the fact that the 1980 , 84 and 88 platform ' abort plank are out of step with the rank and file of our parti -- let alon the american peopl ? '' 
 it 's go to be hard. '' 
 `` it 's particular hard to win a yes ' campaign , `` ad karen cooper , who manag the lose bid to give patient the right to ask for aid in die . 
 crop circl -- larg , photogen disc and ring that conveni appear in english wheat field in the usual newsless summer month -- are hard to studi . 
 `` that 's not equiti and it certain will make it harder for peopl want to sell home becaus of the inequ , `` hudson said . 
 a bleary-ey bonior said thursday that the democrat , who talk up their all-night on morn news program , succeed in hammer home the messag that the democrat `` want to be identifi with the peopl who are have a hard time '' while the republican are `` busi take care of the millionaires. '' 
 and it may be hard for small saver not to follow , expert admit . 
 it 's limit in product compar to other upper deck card , but the compani say it 's not suppos to be ani harder to find than the special michael jordan-bat practic card that was salt into the basebal set . 
 and , as everyon know , joseph schildkraut won best support actor for the life of emil zola , ' not for romanc of radium. ' `` ; veteran oscar-watch , i ve learn ( the hard way ) , are n't veri forgiv . 
 ani writer will tell you that write short is a whole lot harder than write long . 
 `` it ll be hard play the laker without magic , `` warrior point guard tim hardaway said . 
 `` but the tree and other matur plant are not cheap and it 's hard to replac them. '' 
 ( check ) `` i ve read a lot about what meryl streep has said concern the role of women in film and how hard it is to get a decent part , and i want to go : and you know what , meryl -- i 'm black ! ' 
 oppon of the fee increas said the new structur would make it hard for peopl to qualifi to buy home in campbel , and it was unfair to make develop pay for facil that will be a benefit to the communiti . 
 too littl to go around ; `` it is hard to think in term of expand servic when we ca n't even pay for the one we ve got , `` mauriello said . 
 this coffee-t style book , with it beauti photograph , is hard to put down , even if you do n't follow all the gossip about the royal famili . 
 well , mayb that is n't so hard to imagin . 
 it 's hard to deni that wgs ' resum show a disproportion share of wreak wrong . 
 but there are few taimen and they are hard to catch , particular for fli fishermen , so interest has switch to angl for salmon . 
 the hardest job was make the sauc without cream . 
 the hardest thing is find a piano when we re on the road. '' 
 but too often , the anim is given up for no better reason than `` it got too big and hard to handle. '' 
 but instead i becam caught up in their concern : the shrink health care dollar and the advanc of technolog that have creat problem that even a god would have a hard time solv . 
 a white-and-dark chocol terrin was a chocol symphoni in the mouth , but hard -- a terrorist could have hurl it through the restaur window . 
 `` i still think it would be hard for me to shoot someon , but i know that i can if i have to protect my body. '' 
 the catalog from wind & weather present a larg select of sundial and weather vane -- good gift for those hard-to-buy-for type . 
 `` that could be pretti hard up in the mountain , especi in some of those shadi places. '' 
 `` i have a realli hard time with this not be accept , `` rhonda said . 
 `` they do n't know how hard it is to go out there and find a job when you have to carri all of your belong with you . 
 `` i can rememb it be a lot , lot , lot harder in spring train in 89 , have to go back in there and hit again , `` he said . 
 if the rodney king case is such an imposit , then we had better ask some hard question about the role we want our polic to play . 
 while environment law have made it harder for the corp to cement riverbank , the tendenc remain to do flood control as cheapli as possibl . 
 still , western fan are hard to discourag . 
 `` it was a hard game , `` bulldog coach jim sweeney said . 
 azocar 's adventur in the outfield made it hard to tell just how much better the giant play as a result of the meet . 
 anim with larg bodi generat more heat and have a harder time get rid of it than do small anim . 
 there 's no cover charg , but it may be hard to find a spot without dinner reserv . 
 we move toward the next centuri , more confid than ever that we have the will at home and abroad to do what must be done -- the hard work of freedom. '' 
 it is harder to becom that well-known now , kuwata said , becaus `` the unfortun realiti of present-day polit in california is that news organ do n't have the interest they onc had. '' 
 i told him how hard it was to go through , `` lugo said wednesday . 
 sexual harass is as widespread as it is hard to prove . 
 sinc then , he has record one hard-to-find album after anoth -- the most recent is `` destini is your , `` on steeplechas -- and becom a celebr in japan . 
 it 's also hard for them to explain whi they wo n't pass those part of the bill on which they and the administr agre : for exampl , a provis overturn a decis that said exist civil-right law prohibit racial discrimin in employ contract but not racial discrimin and harass onc an employe is on the job . 
 at usair , it 's relat easi for a surviv spous to pick up mile , but harder for other relat . 
 whether pick stock in a self-direct brokerag account or in a diversifi stock fund , it 's hard to ignor the histor advantag stock return hold over save account-typ yield ( 11.1 percent vs. 7.7 percent the last two decad ) . 
 it is hard to imagin how to pick up the piec when almost everi one is gone . 
 but it 's a hard color to produc . 
 it is hard to imagin these children studi long hour about geographi to particip on the show . 
 `` it 's go to be hard to leav here. '' 
 in fact , get reliabl injuri inform over day can be hard , and the ward snafu is just anoth aspect of the info-challeng . 
 other committe member said it was hard to determin whether ford could carri out his threat . 
 `` the women 's movement has realli propos a veri dramat chang in our think about sexual coercion , and it 's a veri hard chang to accept , `` say univers of new hampshir sociologist david finkelhor , author of `` licens to rape. '' 
 `` so it 's hard to tell how they started. '' 
 `` they got veri good posit and were veri hard to get around . 
 and it 's alway hard to leav a success group . 
 the govern is go to have a hard job defend it intent to chang britain 's tradit `` open door '' polici for commonwealth citizen - a polici that goe back to 1608 , when lord chief justic ellesmer declar that jame 1 was `` one entir king over all his subject in whichsoev of his dominion they were born . '' 
 fruiti style ; hard to beat at this price . 
 `` it 's similar to ab 860 and that 's go to be hard for us to swallow , `` walter said . 
 almost half said they find it hard to make end meet . 
 `` but it 's real hard to find the balance. '' 
 it 's hard to pick a favorit , but the hollyhock `` ladi , `` invert flower top with flower bud head , are precious . 
 the owner complain that the ordin would make their properti harder to sell while offer noth in return . 
 but even as the democrat parti 's hair shirt scratch with impli threat , it is hard to detect the old zest for combat . 
 the image-build of canadian figur skater kurt brown is hard to miss . 
 such a rule would almost certain mean that tough , critic articl would have a much harder time find their way into print . 
 i think probabl the first year would have been the hardest. '' 
 we find our own famili the most satisfi part of our live , but think that it 's harder to be a parent `` than it use to be. '' 
 but if you hold your nose and stare , it 's not hard to see what 's happen . 
 but my fear is that it will be hard to get ani real attent becaus of so mani other thing on the agenda now. '' 
 `` as far as how i 'm go to do , `` he said , `` that 's hard to say. '' 
 it 's hard to believ , writer-director john sayl agre , but it 's so . 
 although it 's hard to prove statist , agent and apprais say neighborhood that have been particular suscept to corpor dump includ part of almaden valley , los alto , morgan hill and area along the interst 680 corridor in alameda and contra costa counti , which took a hit last septemb when chevron announc it was transfer some 400 famili from san ramon to texa . 
 ted brigg of los alto , who enjoy a morn of sail , said it was hard to believ he was just outsid the heart of silicon valley . 
 miss manner know that contemporari folk are go to have a hard time believ this , but there was onc a time when peopl who receiv invit were given no instruct at all about answer them . 
 the union citi council member has finish most of his book on `` star hop , `` a guid to help amateur astronom pinpoint hard-to-find object in the night sky . 
 `` this one will be hard to come back from. '' 
 `` over time , fund manag activ manag blue-chip stock portfolio will have a hard time beat the s & p 500 , `` say aaii research director john markes . 
 here you ll store paper that are hard or expens to replac . 
 he said carri a whistl to signal for help , while better than noth , is n't the best method of protect ; it 's hard to grope for a whistl at the bottom of a purs , let alon blow into it when someon 's attack , he said . 
 we re find out the hard way that we can't. '' 
 it 's hard not to marvel at the unremit good fortun of a man who can call the everyday loss of love gone bad and the job be a pain in the ego his worst disappoint . 
 and it 's hard to say , base on a few hair , how big a textur chang you can expect . 
 but glaspi told the senat that her comment refer not to the abc present but to an edit version of the show , broadcast by iraqi televis , which cut out all of sawyer 's hard question . 
 36 percent of femal and 42 percent of male think the women 's movement made thing harder for male at work . 
 although some administr offici remain commit to send fund to the mujahedeen , as the rebel are call , the move reflect increas frustrat that the afghan polici is outmod and hard to defend . 
 there 's plenti to hold your attent , but it 's sometim hard to figur out who 's stalk whom . 
 that latter point is hard to disput , even if , as the program point out , most big-tim univers do not make money on sport . 
 whether averag citizen chang their own behavior in respons to what they experi , see and read of govern , crime and punish , whether they becom less ethic , cheat more on their tax , or just turn increas disgust , is hard to say . 
 hanigan , basic a market expert , assert that it is not veri hard to sell corpor on improv their recruit unit , both as to qualiti of hire and contain cost . 
 it is hard to keep up . 
 `` with a friend it 's hard to say that 'i ve been rape by a friend. ' `` ; hear also encourag student to talk about the role-play charact ' motiv , action and bodi languag . 
 it was a big lesson , a hard lesson , but we need to learn it. '' 
 it 's hard to believ that the land of ninevah , ur , numrud , lagash , uruk , babylon and , some say , the garden of eden is face extinct . 
 `` it 's just hard to believ they 'd increas their budget when other peopl are cut their , includ peopl be laid off , `` he said . 
 an outsid might have the hardest time with the seem nonchal attitud toward death exhibit by near everyon who work in the offic . 
 the transmiss shift so smooth that it 's hard to notic the chang . 
 it 's hard to say exact what came out of it . 
 i did n't take part in the struggl for democraci dure these hard day but i feel deep gratitud and respect for those brave muscovit who went out to the street . 
 relentless question ; the latest lesson has been a hard one as smith 's defens attorney , roy black , has ask the alleg victim suggest question design to discredit her account of be rape by smith at the kennedi famili compound on the easter weekend night they met at a fashion palm beach bar . 
 `` judi has a hard time understand i left simpli becaus our relationship fell apart , `` navratilova said . 
 i trust that you will continu to ask the hard question and seek honest answer . 
 bush : 'a cruel busi ' ; `` general speak , i think there 's an expect , but i keep say that it 's a cruel busi , and that it is hard when you rais the hope of one famili , and onli to have those diminish , `` he said befor tee off at the cape arundel golf club . 
 for their part , the comput compani are afraid heavi dump duti on the alreadi expens screen will make it hard for them to succeed against their japanes competitor in the lap-top busi . 
 the hear , which was to be the first to make hard decis on fremont school budget cut , drew an overflow crowd that pack the citi council chamber and spill into the corridor , where dozen watch the session on televis . 
 health insur and regul should ask the hard question of the medic establish to learn which futur is the likeli . 
 while alumni and friend of both district might find it hard to let go of the past , a merger make sens for the futur . 
 the deal will match up the $ 142 million cirrus -- known as a savvi and aggress market compani -- with the approxim $ 20 million crystal , which analyst say has advanc technolog for hard-to-design analog chip . 
 it 's hard to predict the impact of dbs satellit system . 
 `` it 's a hard question to answer -- how much of the book is there , `` dexter said . 
 but she also said this is abc 's first season of scrambl and that pilfer signal is like to get harder next year . 
 becaus the legisl reli on a broad definit for weapon classifi as `` relic and curio , `` author say some of those gun have becom easier to buy -- not harder , as the bill 's author intend . 
 the wine we tast are some of hardest to produc , need at least 10 year or more to becom drinkabl and will never be cheap . 
 just the other day we thought we had invent the perfect no-moving-part , no-fuel-requir spaceship launcher : a tube 100 mile high and a few yard wide. ok , so it would be hard to build . 
 moreov , the broad declin of u.s. manufactur made it harder for mani laid-off steel or autowork to move into other field . 
 `` and it is import to be as far ahead as you can at a place like this , where it 's veri hard to pass. '' 
 `` it 's hard for me to get up here and say arti , ' `` said jeff armstrong , busi manag of the brother ' o'farrel theatr in san francisco . 
 `` it was hard for them to understand whi she did n't wake up. '' 
 live in the same hous and it did n't seem to be such a hard thing to do , but the sad realiti of lilli 's life and the fact that meltzer did n't love her never satisfi my wish think . 
 `` the longer you stay out , `` she said , `` the harder it is to get back into it. '' 
 `` it 's hard to imagin earn better than this , `` tai said . 
 these factor are difficult to prove , and banzhaf say : `` it is hard to imagin that the almost exclus male patron who paid admiss to see much-larger-than-lif genit on the silver screen would have their peac disturb by see an actual genit display by a fellow patron. '' 
 `` peopl are go to be hard to see , `` said john pike , associ director of space polici for the feder of american scientist . 
 i can be that fearless becaus of my basic browni belief : if the batter tast good and you do n't burn it , then it is veri hard to ruin a batch of browni , to make someth total ined . 
 `` i have a hard time believ they ever had anyth they could prove on him , `` bane said . 
 prove discrimin against mortgag applic is much harder , dunn said . 
 second , run were get hard to come by , and it was get late in the game. '' 
 mistak no. 2 has been harder to figur . 
 `` sometim it 's hard to separ drought damag from freez damag . 
 and in tampa , franchis owner phil esposito is have a hard time pay bill and sell ticket . 
 `` it 's go to be hard to know what you re get with some of these guy , `` grillo said . 
 it 's hard to give that up. '' 
 the contract , like the catech , are main tool for keep research project on cours , someth that often is hard in scienc . 
 point to the larg number of non-earn loan held by both the bank of boston and fleet , moynihan said , `` with that weight on your shoulder , it 's hard to be competitive. '' 
 but when it come to jewish stereotyp , it 's hard to tell the differ between `` bonfir 's '' abe weiss and the evil silent-film jew of 70 year ago . 
 arco 's total alaskan product fell 6 percent last year as well age and declin underground pressur made it harder to get oil to the surfac . 
 `` it 's hard to explain how i feel , `` burrel , 24 , said after a victori gallop around the infield of down stadium on randal island , whose track is consid to be fast . 
 it was hard to get a straight stori from anyone. '' 
 a this is a harder question , becaus while the oil and gasolin market are close link , they do not track each other exact . 
 `` we re either in complianc or work veri hard to be in complianc , `` said clifford burrous , act chief of ame ' offic of safeti , reliabl and qualiti assur . 
 for dessert , we split a hard shortcak biscuit top with fresh strawberri and blueberri and whip cream ( $ 4.50 ) . 
 `` peopl found that the best oven are electr , but they did n't want to cook on the top of the stove on electr becaus it is hard to control . 
 on weekend at the sunnyval public librari 's central facil , it 's hard to find a place to park . 
 it 's hard to tell what director whitney j. leblanc would have done had his hand not been tie by the set design ; but sinc he is one and the same , he has no one to blame but himself . 
 `` one 's reput is rather like a crystal goblet -- when it 's drop , it 's hard to put back togeth again , `` u.s. trade repres carla hill remark when ask about japan 's imag in the unit state after the gulf war . 
 in fact , it 's even hard to get tour pros or golf architect to agre on a definit of an unfair hole . 
 it is hard to exagger how thorough metz has come to domin this market . 
 `` mental , you can be prepar pretti much , but emot , it 's realli hard , `` louis ray , the boy ' mother , said sunday from her home in sarasota , fla . 
 this is n't hard to understand . 
 harder the choic , the more will the leagu is to wade in . 
 flore , who has been use the program sinc last summer said the free lunch have help her famili cope with hard econom time . 
 but their inadequaci as an enemi have long been appar ; it is hard to unit behind a tough trade polici if it result in jack up the price of a toyota or digit audio tape player . 
 `` they had n't been rais to upper mid-level manag , even , and that 's someth that 's hard to explain. '' 
 by now you see how hard it is to catch up with you . 
 one recess lesson that mani busi learn the hard way is not to play it too close to the edg . 
 although it 's hard to predict what the econom mood will be in septemb , garrett is enthus enough about this lineup to predict a $ 1.4 million day . 
 `` no , it wo n't be hard . 
 it 's hard to see how all the variant of aggress could be extrapol from sperm design . 
 mayb , mayb . . . it is hard to know . 
 `` it 's hard enough to get a bill through congress ; it 's level of magnitud more difficult to get a resolut through in the u.n. general assembly. '' 
 `` it 's hard when peopl are worri about lose their job to ask them to sign someth like this , `` he said . 
 `` it realli stress you , and it 's veri hard to learn . 
 it 's hard to believ now , when everybodi who has ever work on a polit campaign end up hang out a shingl as a `` campaign consult , `` but 20 year ago there were exact three heavy-hit profession campaign consult on the democrat side -- and strother was one of them . 
 drabek was better than glavin in the second half and is hard to beat at three ri rs stadium ; glavin was the all-star starter and should be accustom to the commot . 
 it use to be hard for individu tourist to travel in east germani , where the communist govern encourag group travel . 
 pacif spread us out and we play ( a defens ) that make it hard to stop the run . 
 and as their rep i have a hard time ask them to do that. '' 
 `` it 's veri hard to ask a child to care about the environ when they do n't have enough food. '' 
 it has alway been hard for me to cook for two ever sinc , so i got real pleasur when i cook for a number of guest at our inn. '' 
 a sort of revers on cliff robertson 's popular `` char , `` `` regard henri '' is a hard film to warm up to . 
 the result : soviet refuge now are have a harder time find good-pay job and stay off welfar . 
 `` all of these thing are hard to confirm unless you re actual there , `` grench said . 
 it 's hard for them to admit there might be someth wrong , `` said lesli d. corwin , a specialist in partnership law with the new york firm of morrison cohen singer & weinstein . 
 it 's hard to do that in a tv drama , which has to show us someth on the screen and hope to arous our emot with it . 
 when we arriv in st. paul , the local offic of the american automobil associ had a hard time direct us to bethel colleg . 
 but neapolitan have a hard time summar how they feel about him . 
 `` it was veri hard -- less groceri and less go out to eat or ani type of entertain , `` said deann knott , a sorter at stark pack . 
 and presid bush will tout `` increment '' chang -- babi step -- such as a chang in malpractic law to make it harder to sue doctor . 
 last week , a lawyer for harri request a postpon , cite a u.s. suprem court rule april 16 that made it harder for state prison to make repeat feder court challeng to their convict . 
 jeremi iron ; ( box ) magic amid the rubbish ; the shift from stage to screen is hard for some actor . 
 wax that has drip onto the curv and crevic of a metal candlestick is hard to remov . 
 spiritu benefit ; the reward are hard to defin for those who do n't share or experi the total devot to the pure and holi life orthodoxi dictat . 
 she look so clean and sweet it 's hard to imagin she ever had anyth to do with all those nasti movi . 
 the giant , who begin the final first-half homestand tuesday against houston , did it the hard way sunday . 
 `` we knew come in that it would be hard to score mani point . 
 so , you ve been scour the box score and search for overlook sensat , which are as hard to find as the syntax in a sparki anderson quot . 
 a good locat is get harder to find . 
 what 's hard for viewer to understand is that they are mere do the poke and nag and whine that are the standard trick of the report trade -- peopl do n't have to tell them anyth , after all , so they have to worm it out of them . 
 a few of these countri -- it 's hard to believ this was even legal -- did not have televis in the hotel room . 
 `` it 's hard to believ she 's left the hous . 
 so it 's sometim hard for employ and worker to recogn the differ between a spontan express of frustrat and someth more menac . 
 the holiday decor season is just begin , but for origin it ll be hard to beat a christma tree dress to the nine with more than 75 barbi in even gown . 
 he said with all the tv close-up today , it 's hard to get away with anyth . 
 it 's kind of hard when your toe do n't work. '' 
 but research said that with the vagari in report the relat new diseas , it 's hard to tell if it spread realli has stop . 
 in fact , it is hard to imagin a wors perform by the u.s. govern over a longer period of time . 
 the screen are inordin hard to manufactur , and mani must be reject as imperfect , make them veri expens . 
 ( onc a nightmar is in your blood , it 's hard to get it out of your system. ) 
 thursday , recal the incid from virginia , mcquilla , in his huski voic , said simpli : ; `` it was hardest thing i ve ever had to do. '' 
 it 's hard to chalk up the two event to mere coincid , but the time doe not appear to be bush 's do . 
 they have had a hard time tri to realli deliver. '' 
 but the panel could n't find hard evid that prozac or other anti-depress drug caus peopl to commit suicid or violent act . 
 i think we re move into a decad where look into the futur is a lot harder than it was 10 or 15 year ago. '' 
 that should n't be too hard . 
 it 's hard to understand your logic sometim . 
 like oat and updik at their best , howev , bank is a strict realist writer with a remark comprehens and sympathet vision of the human condit and it hardest realiti . 
 `` we can have some fun with each other when we see each other , now that we no longer have to pleas someon who was hard to pleas , `` wood said . 
 q a friend tell me that redwood sawdust is fine to use with hard-to-work soil . 
 i think it 's go to be hard to deal with becaus they built him up so much , but no one 's go to be there for him but his true friend at the end of his career . 
 `` it was hard at first , `` said askey , rememb his first week when he work in the laundri . 
 it ll make it hard to know for whom to root when their segment of the show air in late decemb , but by then you ll probabl forget i told you that the barbaccia won . 
 when one cut through the educ jargon and union ralli , it 's hard not to perceiv that a settlement base on logic , reason and compromis could n't have been reach month earlier . 
 jerri smith is clear a hard man to convinc . 
 she say that `` the hike was veri hard for me . 
 actual , even in show-biz term , it 's hard to know who crawford is . 
 san mateo ; ( box ) it 's hard not to find someth to eat in downtown san mateo . e 
 `` it 's hard to date , `` he said . 
 but it 's hard to turn it in the other direct , becaus our kid are say , 'i ll be the onli kid who doe n't have it. ' `` ; walsh advis parent to blunt the advertis bombard by cut back or supervis their children 's televis view . 
 but it was clear by the time the imsai ( cp/m-base person comput ) came out that it was hard to ignor the royalti check . 
 ( `` go down a 45-degre angl is hard , `` say walter . 
 with the except of the unjust neglect avram davidson , it 's hard to imagin an american writer as well-suit as evan connel to creat that book . 
 it 's hard to know becaus the latrin here do n't alway have mirror . 
 sinc the attent of a male to a senior ladi are nice , as well as hard to come by , i perhap act foolish and permiss for the sake of it . 
 part of my report are so confus that it 's hard to tell whether they re right . 
 it 's hard to start all over again if you lay off too long . 
 it 's hard to sympath with this guy ; he 's just too stupid and woebegon . 
 and so it 's hard to say what the favorit is . 
 it 's hard to miss the absurd of the machin or mcmillen 's plea that we need to organ our scrabble-lett heap of thought into clear languag . 
 lie is easier for such a person , and it 's harder for other to detect . 
 you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good colleg . 
 `` it 's hard for me to understand where the time has gone , `` strasburg say . 
 it 's hard to imagin anyth that should be more privat than the moment of death . 
 it seem hard to believ the dull joe cotten could have charm ani widow in hitchcock 's `` shadow of a doubt , `` but for harmon it would be a piec of cake . 
 it 's a no-risk deal , it sureti so obvious it 's still hard to understand how it confus the bureaucrat who boot the deal around for month . 
 `` ani famili that has more than two or three children in this valley has a veri hard time find afford hous or ani hous , `` brennan said . 
 yet 80 year later , surround by crime and crumbl hous , it 's hard to believ ani citi ever had the answer , let alon knew all the question . 
 so domin was the cardin 's 38-21 victori saturday -- accentu by vardel 's 182 yard and three touchdown -- that it was hard to imagin stanford be 1-3 and lurk in the pacif 10 confer cellar after humbl loss to washington , arizona and notr dame less than two month ago . 
 the hardest etiquett lesson , for those who have learn all the rest , is that target individu -- other than one 's own minor children -- for unsolicit advic is one of the major rude . 
 near 40 percent of them watch the movi , but the demi moore-patrick swayz weeper made so much money in theater that it 's hard to believ there were peopl who miss it there . 
 i would n't dream of tri to call one forth with a ouija board -- they appar can be quit hard to get rid of . 
 `` it 's hard with a guy like him when he 's ahead in the count all of the time. '' 
 `` it will be realli hard to tell my kid i 'm not go to work tomorrow. '' 
 anoth problem , produc say , is the percept that venison is tough , gami and hard to cook . 
 said bunc : `` it was hard to dislik jim . 
 the nobl lord , lord strang , has done splendid work - and i glad add my tribut to those paid by other - as chairman for so long of the nation park commiss ; and he has had a hard row to hoe . 
 `` the longer you put it off , the harder it get . 
 `` suit of old russian danc '' that open that inaugur program with the slow and modest entranc of the maiden and built steadili into typic moiseyev vigor and warmth ; the amus `` yurochka '' , in which a hard-to-pleas young man is given his come-upp ; the love ( and of cours vigor ) `` polyanka '' or `` the meadow '' ; the three moldavian danc entitl `` zhok '' ; the sweet and funni littl danc about potato plant call `` bul'ba '' ; and the hilari pictur of social life in an earlier day call `` citi quadrill '' are all just as good as one rememb them to have been , and they are welcom back . 
 judg from a stroll through clubsport of fremont , it 's hard to think member sacrific anyth . 
 i also find it hard to shrug off the pirat elect scenario for two reason : ( 1 ) circumstanti evid , and ( 2 ) the bizarr cast of charact . 
 the hard part for her was do all the thing necessari to get in front of that goal -- such as stay in school or in shape or on the team . 
 `` foothil 's offens was n't easi , but it was n't hard . 
 it 's hard enough convinc a drug and alcohol abus teen-ag to seek help , but most program make it more difficult by expect them to go for treatment after school or weekend . 
 the chestnut blight that kill million of tree back east has not migrat to the west coast but becaus they have a hard time grow here we do n't see too mani of them . 
 newark school truste alreadi know what they want to keep in their budget for next fall , so now come the hard part : what will they elimin ? 
 lendl blew lead of 2-0 and 5-3 in the third set and complain to offici that `` it 's hard to play '' becaus of nois from the crowd of approxim 8 , 000 . 
 thrive in america is harder than ever . 
 it will be hard to imagin that river on a warm summer even without cloud of caddi and mayfli , and rise rainbow dimpl the surfac . 
 allen said scrap metal has becom popular with thiev becaus it is hard to trace and machin that chew it up quick destroy ani chanc of identifi the owner . 
 sinc femal give birth to a singl calf onli onc everi two year , it 's not hard to appreci how peril close to extinct the humpback is . 
 but it 's hard to imagin they could squelch the entir open of societi that 's gone on. '' 
 `` i had a hard time understand whi they kept go back , `` kittl said . 
 it would n't be hard to imagin john lennon write a song like `` chocol cake , `` lambast american for their decad tast ( andrew lloyd webber music , tammi fay bakker 's religion , too much rich cake ) . 
 `` it 's hard to defin yourself as an artist , `` jean hanamoto said . 
 `` but it was hard to tell becaus it was like a hurrican in the middl of the field. '' 
 most peopl will have a hard time stay with sunday 's open two hour , which meander around the globe , set up columbus ' time , his motiv and his struggl to get someon to financ his dream of sail west to reach the east . 
 `` it 's hard to categor letter of this natur , but the tone was good , the determin to reach agreement was posit and we re look veri close at the details. '' 
 a pane of glass is n't hard to '' - 
 `` the joke are hard to translat , `` he said , ad through his translat that he 's not eager to begin anoth japanese-american collabor . 
 it is a hard duti but a necessari one -- a divin one . 
 `` the hardest thing was learn the materi . 
 `` if you re also a candid , it complic in some way becaus if you make hard decis , it can hurt your candidaci . 
 great when it count : it alway has been hard to gaug pitcher such as robinson and reuschel on spring-train outing . 
 over time , it get a littl hard to reli on those race-neutr issu ( for explan ) . '' 
 make it hard to sell ticket when mail is deliv two year late , but s.j. stage push on . 
 ask if he believ evan kill that mani peopl , lusk said that after see the child 's bodi , `` it is hard to disbeliev him. '' 
 it 's hard for me to even get into a hospit without medic insurance. '' 
 john le carr , the spi novelist who describ green as `` my guid star , `` said : `` he was a great and magic writer , hard to fit into ani pattern. '' 
 `` the hard part is out of the way now , `` zaner said . 
 onc that is understood , general are harder to make . 
 in the unit state , howev , these ticket are the hottest and hardest to get . 
 we are the parent of five love children , and it is hard enough to encourag abstin without articl like the one about the `` abort kit '' ( live , sept. 11 ) . 
 dunlap said he was not sure which compani or compani were respons for the ftc investig , and when ask if it might have been sunnyvale-bas amd , said , `` it is hard to say. '' 
 for sheer creativ , it 's hard to beat the playroom , from broderbund softwar . 
 lotteri money repres onli 3 cent of everi school dollar , and from the start , offici encourag school to spend that money on one-tim purchas and warn against build the money `` into the budget base '' -- for thing such as salari and benefit -- where it becom hard to extract . 
 if you find that hard to believ , check your mailbox . 
 `` the idea was to help peopl find pet , `` say denzer , whose stylish cut blond hair and perfect lipstick make it hard to imagin her cruis through anim shelter take photo of doom dog and cat . 
 `` it would be hard to be vaguer and mushier than this administr has been in these so-cal commit , `` wyden said . 
 `` the feel of elat is veri hard to describ , `` said bill toon , curat of bird at the san diego wild anim park and a key member of the california condor recoveri team , which includ feder and state offici . 
 ambrosius admit his estim is extrem broad , but said figur are hard to pin down becaus the industri is in it infanc . 
 flight director al pennington said it 's hard to say whether discoveri would have collid with the object . 
 tactic are go to be harder to appli . 
 tommi armour said , after you ve play the hole onc , it 's no longer blind. ' ; `` the easiest thing in the world is to make a hard golf cours . 
 it 's hard to fathom a bunch of clown who 'd hang in with a silli , dead-end idea like post-it note for a decad , right ? 
 the east bay-san francisco ferri are carri as few as 500 passeng a day now , a decreas of about 200 from a year ago , and it is hard to find support in the legislatur for continu state financi aid , said sen. quentin kopp , i-san francisco . 
 bush also would speed feder licens for nuclear power plant and make it harder for state to block nuclear-wast dump site -- both long-sought goal of the moribund nuclear-pow industri . e 
 `` and even if you do have general inform , it 's hard to get it into the stream from this position. '' 
 she said the hardest part is deal with the fact she surviv and wellborn , who was live in frankfurt , germani , did n't . 
 `` it 's been hard at time , but that 's part of the challeng , `` say blank 's daughter , tennesse , 14 . 
 consid the hardest but fastest method ( a few day to a week ) . 
 `` i ll tell you this : the team we had -- the young femal lawyer and the older , ex-con privat eye -- was veri hard to write for . 
 `` but it 's hard to understand whi me . 
 even jan stenerud find it hard to believ the seri of circumst that have led him to the pro footbal hall of fame . 
 `` it 's realli hard to show this stuff in tradit galleri becaus of the equip overhead , `` said abb don , a multimedia artist here who special in interact oral histori . 
 `` i think it 's real hard to sometim turn around and have the same intens the next time around , `` stanford coach tara vanderv said of her team . 
 it was the hardest thing for me to do , not to chase him and give him anoth hug. '' 
 it 's hard to see both of them make it , `` la russa said . 
 `` it was hard for me to leav motown in the sens that it was my record home for mani year , `` he say . 
 `` it 's also hard to see all our work gone. '' 
 sheesh , some dame are hard to figur . 
 `` i grew up the hard way . 
 given this tender father-son scene , it 's hard to think of john mcenro as the bad boy of tenni . 
 the bill would overturn five 1989 u.s. suprem court decis that made it harder for women and member of minor group to win job discrimin lawsuit . 
 the way she figur it , she ca n't lose with her move away from the half-hour nbc antholog seri she found extrem hard to put togeth each week . 
 `` it 's hard to concentr on other thing , but he 's do ok. '' 
 `` it was a veri hard decis , with lot of tear , `` said betti peach-ew , the owner of the center , which oper amid rundown apart on south rengstorff avenu . 
 `` it 's hard to deal with the budget constraint and the war go on at the same time , `` he said . 
 one bright spot : while job are hard to find , start salari have appar not declin , and have even inch up somewhat . 
 it is hard to know who is more pleas . 
 but if the shopper has narrow the choic to window , say , or macintosh , or plain dos , the hard part is over . 
 it is hard for maker to control the potenc and easi for addict to overdos , author said . 
 the reason for the ad delay , said maj. mark rader , a spokesman for the militari postal servic agenc , is `` it 's harder to hit a move target. '' 
 although caver tri not to contamin the cave , `` it 's pretti hard to eat your lunch without drop a small crumb , `` northup said . 
 suggest short cut ; prove hard to travel ; mission santa cruz was found in august 1791 . 
 `` but i ca n't even . . . it 's hard to get the feel back from that game . 
 mayb that 's whi it was so hard to get to him . 
 `` i did n't know it was go to be this hard . 
 and the notion that a perman congress balanc the power of the presid is hard to swallow in the current do-noth and sit-ther state of polit . 
 `` we stay with so mani wonder peopl who did n't speak english it was realli hard to say goodbye. '' 
 but they also make it harder for the car to start tip in the first place -- which as far as consum union was concern was the samurai 's whole problem . 
 it is hard to see a potenti buyer who can afford an accord choos an elantra ; it is just a differ class of car . 
 `` it was the hardest moment of my life . 
 it 's hard to imagin women do this to themselv . 
 they came up the hard way togeth and had been close friend for a generat . 
 `` i ve been tri to make the transit from broadway to becom a record artist , and for a lot of reason it 's been veri hard. '' 
 it would n't be hard to guess that the man who play the laid-back al bundi in `` marri . 
 restor peac ; pranab mukherje , a congress parti elder and it current spokesman , conced : `` we will have to take some hard ( econom ) decis , no doubt , `` particular if it must seek support from tradit oppon . 
 `` this is a hard way to lose , `` ianni said . 
 `` i have a realli hard time with that , `` said shelli kidwel , a felton mother who has volunt as a children 's advoc in santa clara counti for two year . 
 it is harder to say `` merri christma '' when you know that santa clara counti has lost 14 , 000 job in the past year and 1 , 000 from a month ago , when thing were suppos to be pick up . 
 support for bush was hard to find up and down pennsylvania avenu . 
 `` it will be a lot harder , but we have to do it. '' 
 `` it 's everyth from cigarett -- they can be hard to get out here -- to over . 
 `` writer use to tell me it was the hardest show in televis to write for becaus you had to know so much about so much , `` roddenberri told the time . 
 it 's hard to count the number of way in which the person comput has chang the work live of million and the educ of our kid . 
 is hard to understand how he conclud that most snake do not grow appreci after attain matur ; he was work with speci of java , so perhap some tropic snake are unusu in this respect . 
 but she figur that 's kind of hard when mani of them have never left san jose . 
 there is noth terribl sinist go on -- just smart busi , especi in a recess , when custom are harder to come by . 
 `` it 's been one of the hardest thing , `` beckenhauer-hel said . 
 `` it 's been a long , hard fight . 
 grow up is hard enough without be encourag to pursu and accept everi contradictori feel and emot one might have . 
 that 's whi they re wise develop their behind-the-camera skill , perhap prepar for that day when act job may be harder to come by and no longer creativ enough to satisfi them . 
 but it is hard to find instrument craft well enough that they actual sound good and look good , as if someon who truli care about qualiti and craftsmanship made them . 
 `` we have a hard time keep it in the store , `` said tad dawley of the king ' slap shop store in westchest . 
 they found it hard to resist holderman , they said . 
 and it was hard to imagin a prettier teacher . 
 `` when you live in a high-pric area and have to work a lot , it 's hard to find time together. '' 
 `` it was a veri hard thing for him to handl , `` his wife said . 
 resili is amaz , but if it has to hire it labor in the west the struggl will be hard inde '' . 
 a hard team to figur becaus of the coach switch . 
 you find it harder each month to make end meet . 
 it is said that the hardest thing a mother can do is buri one of her children . 
 ( check ) oliv -- though i prefer the deeper flavor of cure oliv , can ripe oliv can be use in so mani dish , it 's hard to keep them off the list . 
 still , when she wander the sidelin at bullet game -- as is her wont -- it is hard to place her as a member of the organ . 
 he fear that public of his name would complic his search , hard enough for a man of 54 . 
 ask how the troubl last year stack up against his previous decad run stanford -- a year that includ a grill befor congress , call for his resign and a litani of other well-public problem -- he deadpan : `` it was a littl harder. '' 
 it 's hard to believ he 's ani wors as a defens outfield than the brave ' lonni smith . 
 it 's hard to put one past her ; she 's heard it all . 
 elsewher , `` it may be hard to think of him in the futur as ever have play someon so good . 
 on the contrari , they complain with almost tedious uniform about the hard work their artist endeavour entail . 
 even amid the laughter as kevin rig up ingeni way to outsmart burglar , i found it hard to abandon into the absurd of the scene . 
 it 's had a hard time grow , too. '' 
 i 'm sorri to say this is all rather hard to follow , and the drama end abrupt with a peculiar sequenc suggest michelangelo did it all to win the respect of his high critic father . 
 that mean that on a day-to-day or even a week-to-week basi , even the peopl in charg of various project have a hard time determin whether they are within budget . 
 `` without object evalu of the fact , it 's hard to expect big benefit from the format of a state commiss to implement and control the cease-fir , `` he said . 
 what 's more , derailleur gear ( outsid the rear wheel hub ) can go out of align under the abus that kid can give a bike , while a simpl one-spe is a lot harder to destroy . 
 but the question is get harder , and the answer goe beyond the esoter world of liver transplant to take in some veri larg issu : how do we alloc health care when scarciti is the realiti ? 
 person attach ; de-junk a home should n't be as hard as brain surgeri . 
 it was a hard , complic move , both in the countri and in the world. '' 
 if attempt to seced from yugoslavia has been difficult for slovenia , which is ethnic homogen , it could be much harder for this ethnic mix republ of 4.5 million . 
 yet it 's hard to dismiss the impact of that depress . 
 `` it 's hard to bond with a babi like that . 
 if lewi doe n't slump , it 's hard to see how the indian could return to fermin , but after all , the manag is john mcnamara . 
 from the outsid , it 's often hard to tell a restaur from a privat home if you ca n't read japanes . 
 a third angri letter writer say my column `` make the goal of a harmoni exist of bicyclist , motorist and pedestrian even harder to achiev . 
 whi yeltsin would agre to share power with a man who has consist tri to intimid and humili him is hard to fathom . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to keep a secret when somebodi from the notr dame alumni associ book 20 , 000 room in new orlean for new year 's . 
 `` i 'd heard it was a veri good school , hard to get into , kind of radic . 
 the judg has said he hope to seat a juri in a few day , but both side acknowledg it will be hard find an imparti panel . 
 `` it 's veri hard to accept , but you need to move on , `` she said . 
 do n't overcrowd pan or it will be too hard to turn over stuf easili . 
 it wash right our with hot water -- which is hard to find here in cuba . 
 the law degre i had struggl so hard to acquir was of no valu becaus it was near imposs for me to work outsid my home . 
 so if two men insist on give up their hard-won deck-chair to two women , it would be ungraci of the women to refus . 
 `` in term of use my feel and my emot life , i realli feel like act is , in a way , harder. '' 
 `` my father knew that life would be hard under the communist in 1975 , `` said thien bui , `` but he was veri patriot and elect to stay , think that he could , in some way , help his country. '' 
 in addit to all the usual difficulti of rais $ 6 million , the festiv draw so much of it support from it wide scatter audienc that it 's extra hard , nicholson said , to seek corpor underwrit , a common sourc for capit fund . 
 so it 's hard to figur whi some peopl would fear them . 
 while the ruler of appl may respect the royalti at ibm , the peasant hate each other -- and it 's hard to see that chang ani time soon . 
 in announc the capit spend cut , crandal said : `` the key to 1992 's profit will be the extent to which the impact of the bankrupt and semi-bankrupt carrier can be moder , and at this point , it 's hard to be optimistic. '' 
 it doe n't help that mani of us grew up see him in contemporari work and find him hard to believ in a period piec . 
 next came the realli hard part : serv a hot main cours and a frozen dessert . 
 even older kid like it becaus it 's hard for them to be recogn in the dark . 
 i find it hard not to sound clich in describ the sight . 
 lap-top comput owner know that they have greater freedom to work on the road or at the beach , but they also quick discov that a seven-pound lap-top seem to weigh 20 by the end of a trip , that most hotel make it difficult to connect the portabl comput to a phone line , that fax modem are treacher thing and that transfer file from the lap-top to a desk-top comput or a network is often harder than it look . 
 the system is set up to keep call parent of truant student until the entir messag play -- just to make it harder for student to intercept the call . 
 of cours , it was hard to look at the big pictur . 
 it 's hard to stay here without famili . 
 `` the comput industri has seen definit sign of slow , `` o'brien said , `` and growth will be even harder to come by in the future. '' 
 kirk west , vice chairman of the commiss and presid of the california chamber of commerc , said the split roll `` would hit disproportion hard in silicon valley , `` argu that the increas tax would make it harder for the valley to keep aerospac and electron industri now be woo by other state . 
 state and feder govern provid a veri limit number of grant for restor of histor properti and they are hard to obtain . 
 besid damag your psych and offend your aesthet sensibl , scar base and edg make a ski slower , harder to turn and less predict . 
 `` statewid , it 's hard to differenti the ( drought 's ) impact from the recess we re in today , `` said frederick cannon , a vice presid and senior economist for bank of america . 
 the memori make it harder to teach adult how to swim than children , expert say . 
 a lot of you express a sens that there 's so much to tackl , it 's hard to know where to start . 
 i know that 's hard to believ becaus i have a veri strong persona , but insid of me i have no idea . 
 nosair had no reason to kill kahan becaus he had come to believ that the radic zionist had soften his hard line on arab and the mideast , kunstler said in his open statement at nosair 's murder trial . 
 but he said , `` my sens is that you re not go to gain back on the easi day what you lost on the hard day -- your bodi doe break down dure the cours of a season. '' 
 hard to turn down ' ; `` if cal move up to sixth , an 8-1 , sixth-rank cal team will be hard to turn down , `` said zatarain , who will attend next saturday 's arizona state-c game and stay in the bay area until the bowl select are announc next sunday . 
 now come the hard part : lose at least nine more pound and hold off foster . 
 it 's a testament to one of the guid principl of disney market , who like to say that the hard part is get the consum to buy that first tape . 
 it may be hard to imagin a substitut that would serv all these purpos so well . 
 `` emot support has been hard to come by , `` she said . 
 i thought the mezz amor -- made with almond and bittersweet chocol -- were too hard and dri . 
 for exampl , it 's hard to imagin king needl a middl eastern potent about his attitud toward women , as walter onc did the late shah of iran . 
 it 's hard to be brave if you do n't know where you are . 
 that 's whi this is so hard to digest. '' 
 this is pretti hard to come by so look for a 1955 chateau beychevell . 
 `` it 's hard to make a good impress in court when you re wear an orang jumpsuit , `` said lawrenc biggam , santa cruz counti 's public defend . 
 if the propos is final , it will make it harder for privat landown to log in area where the owl live . 
 it is hard to imagin that happen in today 's societi . 
 but for immedi , widespread and tangibl impact , the lampf rule would be hard to top . 
 ( check ) it 's hard to believ , but the `` case close '' stamp final has been appli to trump vs. trump . 
 he doe admit though , that after all the long hour of rehabilit and wonder if he would make it back , it 's hard to be in the same spot again . 
 `` it is difficult to say exact how competit the consum credit market is , `` said the report , note that such inform was hard to get . 
 it 's hard to tell , so i had to ask . 
 it 's hard -- but do it . 
 `` if i stay sober , i do n't see the nba as a hard thing to tri and get back into , `` washburn said . 
 it might be hard for some black peopl to tell if this is a slap or not , becaus some black peopl are so use to get slap . 
 ( check ) the writer hint that be `` out of juic '' was wors than be `` out of gas '' becaus it would be harder to haul an extens cord and borrow an electr outlet than to carri a can of gasolin . 
 what we do know is that in the modern age , it 's harder to put inform than freedom back into the bottl . 
 `` it 's veri hard for everyon to understand , `` but in 1941 , `` there were lot of peopl think of suicid . 
 but stripe bass and other fish may suffer for lack of food , although right now it 's hard to distinguish the effect of the clam invas from those of the drought . 
 `` i knew it might be hard to convinc my father becaus he want me to have the money in case there was a ( medic ) emerg , `` chang said . 
 from my perspect here , it is hard to see what all the shout is about . 
 but it 's hard to analyz what a group of incumb might do . 
 the committe said the impact of climat chang on natur would be hard to control , but it was optimist about the abil of u.s. industri and farm to adapt to warm weather . 
 but test lag so far behind that it is hard to link symptom with specif emiss . 
 in the week sinc magic johnson announc he is hiv-posit , it 's been an increas busi place , even though it 's veri hard for some peopl to take this veri simpl test . 
 keep this one in your drawer for the next time the boss give you a hard time . 
 she recommend continu educ cours , develop effect peopl skill and hard work . 
 phrase `` consent of the govern '' need a hard look . 
 he 's a good friend , and hope the hard work he has done on his swing is go to pay dividend for him . 
 `` what we do is realli show the slapstick side that still work with the interpret ( of the play ) , so kid see how much fun shakespear is -- becaus he 's ( often ) associ with hard academ disciplin , `` orlando said . 
 as an antidot to the depend of this ident he routin advoc the classic valu of hard work , individu initi and self-reli -- even as bigotri is continu resist . 
 ( box ) comment : `` ( the game-win singl ) is a compliment to all the hard work , `` moreau coach mike bungarz said . 
 it is therefor on real hard cash that he base his argument that if manchest is readi to pay the top price of , say , 25 s a seat , and fill the theatr , manchest can expect more of the world-fam one - alway provid that her claim do not unhappili conflict with those of la scala , new york 's metropolitan opera , vienna , venic , pari , san francisco , and the rest of the world 's lead opera hous . 
 but hard line are n't hook 's style . 
 it took hoffmann and anoth teacher a year to persuad him to take harder class . 
 i have taken a long , hard look . 
 a minor of dissent say that while wild habitat inde are disappear -- and speci with them -- becaus of human expans , the suppos magnitud and rate of the extinct are unsubstanti by hard evid and probabl have been exagger . 
 a lot of hard-earn money to lose '' , he say today . 
 like this english master , mason realiz his subject in larg , simplifi mass which , though they seem effortless , are in realiti the result of skill design born of hard work and a thorough distil of the natur form that inspir them . 
 that has left their face as hard as the live they come from and their passion as heat as the desert air . 
 we move toward the next centuri more confid than ever that we have the will at home and abroad to do what must be done -- the hard work of freedom . 
 there is no question he came up the hard way , but there has been some question about the accuraci of his version . 
 you have probabl notic that virtual all citi , includ some real armpit , like to boast that they have museum and symphoni , which are of cours the last thing that you realli want at the end of a hard day of travel . 
 no one could have been more courag , more hard-work , more fair-mind , more amiabl . 
 a clearer , harder , tougher nation self-assess . 
 davi said author here had long suspect sjonborg in wild 's slay but lack hard evid until his estrang wife came forward sept. 6 and recant an earlier alibi she had given sjonborg for the day of wild 's death . 
 your self-disciplin , dilig and hard work are exemplari . 
 they look old and dumpi , with stolid , hard face . 
 i do n't know if you would call it luck , or just plain hard work -- it was probabl a combin of both -- but your mother and i put in a lot of hour and end up with a veri success busi . 
 it was hard work , recal john a. breed , a year younger than lester and now a resid of live oak . 
 the hear forc tim stead , 37 , a supervisor at a san jose manufactur plant , to take a hard look at his past treatment of women . 
 she said mr. dali was `` a hard news man '' who had becom dismay by recent trend in journal . 
 if other in silicon valley are encourag and rich reward for hard work and persever , whi should teacher be singl out and condemn ? 
 even with it joyous moment , song such as `` someth to talk about , `` `` good man , good woman '' and the sultri `` slow ride , `` `` luck of the draw '' ask tough question and take a hard look at the never-end balanc between ideal and realiti . 
 but the administr want hard evid the soviet are move to a free market economi , befor more massiv aid is consid . 
 propos the toast of the guest , mr thoma lonsdal , said the cater industri today requir brain , but point out that the capac to absorb technic knowledg differ from the hard realism of routin cater , which demand not onli brain and skill , but common sens and understand of human natur as well as the highest possibl degre of courtesi . 
 to the mix of hard fact , horoscop and advic offer at the end of 900 line , a group of mainlin christian is ad anoth choic : comfort and inspir . 
 wilson need to take a hard look at just how the state is spend it resourc when it come to the poor , elder and disabl . 
 our grandmoth might have describ her as a hard woman , but today she was tri desper to recaptur yesterday 's ingenu . 
 cloud part and hard gash of sunlight swoop down to stain the earth with streak of white and gold light so that the shadow of the run hors flow like dark stream over the dazzl snow . 
 her friend commiser : `` no way to avoid hard work. '' 
 fellow council member prais roger for hard work and dedic . 
 professor in hard-scienc disciplin , such as engin , were found to be more satisfi with their job than their colleagu . 
 of the lime that is alway on hand in the capitol basement for plaster repair was slake sever month for us ; but to make it stiffer , of a realli putty-lik consist to avoid crack , we ad a littl hydrat lime- hard on the hand , but we could see no other disadvantag . 
 i invit anyon with hard inform from kuwait that contradict our preliminari find to get it to us as quick as possibl . 
 evid , when you came up with the solut of own your own home , you forgot to add patienc to hard work . 
 and so you did of me , jane thought , with a sudden , uncharacterist hard percept . 
 the chevi engin stall , mear said , becaus it fail to pick up fuel after mear took it down the hill and made the hard left turn toward the checker flag . 
 `` it 's a forc that 's design to take a hard look at the capabl of potenti oppon around the world. '' 
 `` all that hard work i did in spring train paid off . . . '' 
 he said tuesday there are no hard feel . 
 while not deni his obvious sex appeal , bolton has clear earn his posit of promin , artist and commerci , in the music industri through his tremend talent as a singer and songwrit and mani year of hard work and dedic . 
 yet , with hard work and the abil to live within their mean , they have produc what is seen now . 
 but when she finish his eye were hard . 
 corpor inform system manag need to take a good , hard look at what peopl need and then develop simpl , use applic that deliv up-to-d inform into knowledg worker ' hand . 
 howev , a hard look at the current career path system show that it doe not work . 
 `` so , for the time be , adio , no hard feelings. '' 
 all californian need to take a long , hard look into themselv and stop hide behind fuzzi , `` liber '' notion of freedom . 
 home : a `` rustic '' older home on four acr in woodsid that get a lot of `` hard '' use , he say . 
 these peopl and their backer play no part in the hard work of collect 19 , 000 signatur for recal . 
 brother and sister seem to be a sort of mutual-aid societi , a littl fortress of kind for each other in a hard world . 
 disagr over other matter has kept hard feel from die , she said . 
 in it cover piec , the current peopl magazin take a hard look at the pair , who do n't see each other veri often anymor -- at one point royal watcher figur they had n't been togeth for 39 day . 
 `` pro athlet never know how good they have it until they have to face some kind of hard realiti . 
 yuh 25 , unaccustom to the hard edg of new york humor , found breslin 's remark sexist . 
 school disciplin , hard work and right-from-wrong were of the highest prioriti . 
 iron , she say , just when her consult busi is firm establish and could be run from ani locat , the coupl are take a long , hard look at each one 's career potenti . 
 `` i 'm here to do my job , and that 's it , `` said dickerson , who admit he still has hard feel toward the colt ' manag . 
 but on sunday , after two week of hard think , blondi bumstead enter the workforc as . . . a cater . 
 but industri analyst in japan say ibm face a hard fight in the japanes market , where price competit for notebook comput is fierc and loyalti to japanes brand run deep . 
 even the most radic professor requir hard work and self-reli from their student . 
 further , ani institut that 's got real estat and oil and gas and take a hard look at it this year and doe n't write it down has a veri peculiar portfolio , `` meyer said . 
 best antidot for the bitter and disappoint that poison him was hard work . 
 correct counselor ric hyland , who did hard time for arm robberi 25 year ago , stood shoulder to shoulder with the 31-year-old groom , whose crimin record includ 42 misdemeanor and four feloni convict for drug and alcohol- relat crime and three term in san quentin . 
 demur one moment , hard and decis the next , she caught the dual side of a complex charact . 
 but hard work , he conclud , is n't suffici to recov or creat a win formula . 
 parent perhap fall into three section ; those who were glad to finish formal educ at 14 or earlier , those who obtain a profession qualif `` the hard way '' under the tradit english system , and those who rememb their own univers - and for most this would be oxford , cambridg or a london medic school . 
 attorney for william luca barker were unsuccess in their bid to have their client 's charg dismiss on the ground that there is no hard scientif proof that he has aid . 
 recent at a workshop of tri-valley citizen against a radioact environ , i heard a physicist from the lab comment that the project may well be mothbal after complet becaus the soviet alreadi have much excess capac to produc enrich uranium use other technolog and , given their desper need for hard currenc , they would be will to undersel anyon on the planet . 
 the task forc will take a hard look at the fund , program and academ support sjs must have to enhanc a divis i program . 
 thank to the hard work of dilig research , the classic two-reel comedi of the legendari chick morton and eddi hay , long believ lost , have been discov in a forgotten film vault and tonight they ll begin an unpreced reviv on cbs . 
 we are american : we have a uniqu respons to do the hard work of freedom . 
 his voic grew hard . 
 and offici there have no incent to look hard at effect ; drug program are simpli pay the air forc and navi for the fli and steam they would be do anyway out of their own budget . 
 we learn the hard way , by trial and error , but we learn . 
 so i clung to this shadowi mardonius , simultan a hard , nobl greek soldier and a soft , curling-lip persian tyrant ; beard and clean-shaven ; on both side at onc , a faint ghost-mardonius in the sky ; a potenti , onli half-real . 
 they play all the song from their success album , `` schubert dip , `` with a harder edg than on record . 
 `` more import , it will creat an effort- and performance-bas system which will send a messag to all student that hard work pay dividend , that learn is import , and that tough cours are the path to success , `` cooperman said . 
 the truth is that ani arab who tri to make a stand which is somewhat more moder than the hard line will be kill . 
 no hard feel develop and within month rosenberg follow cooley to seafirst , washington state 's largest bank . 
 the last word ; water smart ; with sever water ration hang over our head , take time for a hard look at your garden to weed out the wimp . 
 now two research psychologist at the univers of california , santa cruz , who just happen to be marri to each other , want to take a hard , scientif look at one of the more interest aspect of amor . 
 over the year , charli 's seen just about everi way a human life can end -- heart attack , stroke , car accid , hang , suffoc , crib death , drown , even a few murder -- and just about everi way the survivor deal with that hard realiti . 
 both pretel and his bride are cover with tattoo , prison imprimatur of hard time serv . 
 amid hard feel over the fail merger , legal squabbl began over disney 's use of henson charact at disney theme park . 
 as lawyer for both side churn out brief , the lot sit dusti and vacant , home to one lanki eucalyptus and a lot of hard feel . 
 a hard eye , she inform moll : `` do n't sure nuff me , offic . 
 it 's veri hard work . 
 almost everyth was render in a hard , fast , ham-fist manner that was about as subtl as a kick in the gut . 
 a hard look at the status of women in the workplac show : ; ( check ) record number of women are enter tradit male profess , such as law , busi and medicin . 
 tom fast , of scott valley , step out of the crowd into a hard embrac . 
 after the first blush of alli uniti , look for a diverg of view between washington and berlin on how to deal with the hard new men in the kremlin . 
 while taylor had remain the lead candid to succeed seidman , bush told report last week after seidman 's resign that he had decid to `` start over and take a hard look. '' 
 `` we were look at a show that was make a real hard turn for the worst , `` said busfield . 
 the mean to creat communiti , from mutual accept to creat an open and respons polit process , a sound educ system , and forum in which communiti member can work through key issu , are all achiev at least to some degre through persist and hard work . 
 `` we are take a hard look in other way we can generat addit revenu , `` she said . 
 my pre-monke sing had a littl harder edg . 
 hunt everywher for way to save money on employe health insur -- are take a hard look at two-incom coupl . 
 `` he said that he thought this was an indic that there was still hard feel toward some segment of the communiti , `` he said . 
 the new honey-hair somer is just as sexi , but she 's now thought , articul and self-assur without the hard edg of the past . 
 besid , they say , the way to win in palo alto is with credibl and hard work , not fanci mailer . 
 as with mani such breakthrough , the research would prefer to talk about the hard scienc and leav the extravag market claim to other . 
 at least ophelia gave her a chanc to go mad , which she say is hard work . 
 the map at right , approv by a major of the committe , was the product of hard work conduct in public by peopl tri to do the right thing . 
 he also prais the effort of his grandfath ( his sister live with other relat after his father walk out on the famili when thoma was 7 ) , who believ that hard work , faith in god and moral valu could overcom ani advers . 
 it 's make you hard , joyc . 
 laugh was hard . 
 equat for success ; his equat is simpl : determin + disciplin + hard work & equal ; success . 
 the mayor chalk up the mcclain controversi to `` misunderstand and hard feelings. '' 
 the book 's goal , he write , is to suggest that `` with studi and hard work , first-tim buyer can often reduc the need for capit , substitut guarante for cash and borrow money even with limit incomes. '' 
 `` just assum there 's go to be hard feelings. '' 
 through hard work and luck , we have been abl to accumul a consider net worth . 
 the turtl also learn a lot about the benefit of dilig and hard work on their way to rock stardom , raphael say . 
 he found himself more and more surpris that ani person could bear to be hard to anoth . 
 `` i believ in logic , reason , hard work , `` he say just befor proctor sink up to his eyelash in quicksand . 
 no offens to okun , who probabl is a good guy and as charm as grover say , but he is a publicist , and this is suppos to be a hard look at the compani he work for . 
 lack hard data , social scientist and poll taker offer an array of educ , often contradictori , guess to explain the widespread support for thoma among women . 
 i 'm sure this provid hour of enjoy for urban profession , who , after a hard day of wrangl sale report , can mosey back to their condominium , rustl up a mess o ' sushi , and spend an old-fashion western-styl even analyz their jean damag . 
 it was onli when addit hard intellig data appear two year later that the pentagon and much of the rest of the state depart were inform of the suspici algerian reactor . 
 some peopl must get their lump the hard way and appar your daughter is one of them . 
 they re convinc the onli reason citi and counti ca n't find enough qualifi asian to hire is that they re not look hard enough . 
 but the state of california want to take a long , hard look at trip-rel health and accid insur to determin if it sale to peopl 65 and older should be subject to greater regul . 
 yet the studi suggest that the lawsuit , legisl , hard work and money spent in the 1970s began to show result in the marin environ dure the 1980s . 
 and there 's no hard evid to suggest how feather were develop . 
 sear announc the action as it board began a two-day meet that was expect to take a hard look at the flag retail busi and search for a way to regain lost custom and profit . 
 but hard econom fact will . 
 he has extol the valu taught him as a youth -- a good educ , hard work and disciplin -- and warn young black never to forget `` the blood of the ( civil right ) marcher , the prayer and hope of our people. '' 
 `` so i sure do n't have ani hard feelings. '' 
 it is critic then , to open a wide debat on the futur of american foreign polici , and that demand a hard look at the bush doctrin as outlin by the presid , secretari of state jame baker and nation secur advis brent scowcroft . 
 sen. christoph dodd , d-conn. , told a senat bank subcommitte that the salomon scandal `` has forc all of us -- regul and the congress -- to take a long , hard look '' at the auction process . 
 i rememb the hard work i had put in , the great hope i held , and the disappoint when i made a mistak . 
 it 's the smaller compani that are take a hard look at the overal secur oper , `` said mark giudici , senior industri analyst for dataquest inc. in san jose . 
 when he die in a plane crash in 1982 , the kid took over the compani and have dedic their hard work to his memori . 
 these chang vari from head to head , so that no hard and fast rule can be made when appli colour , and the result will vari consider , accord to the condit of the hair . 
 `` there 's no hard feel , no bitter , `` he said . 
 even as there are no breakdown , bankruptci , suicid ; in alumni magazin ; so in the page of the old there are no hard complaint , ; noth to share but reminisc ; of everyth not there , or true , ani more . 
 the court found littl hard evid to support a distinct between powder cocain and crack -- hard piec of high purifi cocain that have been prepar for smoke . 
 now -- and onli now -- is it time to take a hard look at the warrior and their coach and general manag , don nelson . 
 he advis them to take a hard look at communiti organ to propos the elimin of those that duplic servic . 
 in the long run , no one doubt that those who have invest four year of hard studi and up to $ 100 , 000 for a colleg degre will get good job eventu -- perhap later this year if the recess eas -- and that they will be spare the grind unemploy and poverti that often face those with limit or no higher educ . 
 for the teen-ag , the project has been more than just hard work . 
 while the strongest intern respons to date has been econom sanction on yugoslavia by the european communiti , earlier this month presid bush said the unit state was `` take a hard look '' at it option to follow suit . 
 `` harder work is need ; but abov all we need more drive and better direct , more effici and economi in our effort . '' 
 his father , who was hard at work at his desk , did n't notic the time pass and it was well past six when he look at the clock . 
 the sky is a hard enamel blue despit the autumn odd , and robin william engag in some dri humor . 
 `` he was abl to handl situat and peopl without caus hard feel or escal the situation. '' 
 he depict the war as part of the `` hard work of freedom '' familiar to american . 
 tammi harmon still rememb her mother hover around her , year ago , when she came home from a hard day 's work and prop her feet up on the couch . 
 i told him , just play like you did in double-a. ' `` ; general manger al rosen said clayton will get `` a hard look '' next spring . 
 if the offic milieu is timeless , whi should n't there be a typewrit ? -- except that scriven is so much a pre-autom profess , hard on the eye , labor-intens and dull beyond compar . 
 craig also is will to take a hard look next spring at rooki pitcher paul mcclellan , who allow the cub just four hit over seven inning saturday , and bryan hickerson , who gave up two run over five inning friday . 
 `` it caus a veri , veri hard look to be taken at our counti 's child welfar system , `` keeley said . 
 she said the `` hard number '' is 11 , 607 . 
 `` start last year and everi year from now on , we ll be look hard at young quarterback , `` offens coordin mike holmgren said . 
 wherea everyth in boccaccio is hard , eleg and general , in chaucer it is mute , peculiar , full of object that are unexpect and yet odd characterist . '' 
 british prime minist john major said the move meant the ec was `` dismantl it tie with yugoslavia , `` and presid bush said the unit state was `` take a hard look '' at it option to follow suit . 
 had bought a littl piec of properti down along the coast of the hard countri of calabria that he knew so well . 
 `` now come the hard work , `` said santa clara counti supervisor rod diridon , who help form the bay vision 2020 commiss 18 month ago . 
 concern about california 's hard recess `` is someth peopl have n't been talk about but probabl should , `` said jame murren , casino stock analyst at c.j. lawrenc inc. in new york . 
 the plotter of the coup were men of the hard right , who want to prevent chang . 
 `` we ought to take a good , hard look at the increas we ve given to teacher . 
 nadin prais dorosin for her hard work , and the strong tie she forg between busi and the chamber . 
 here , we are build a viabl , success immigr communiti through hard work , i hope , without forfeit our identity. '' 
 her mother said in scandal tone that money was n't everyth and thought how hard her daughter had becom . 
 such hard and fast divis of human were to come later . 
 `` what , you got ta becom a hard guy when you come to jail ? `` the offic retort . 
 in the interview , donaldson call on the feder govern to take `` a good hard look '' at whether it encourag of competit among differ secur market had place the industri on `` a veri slipperi slope '' toward a fragment market that would be difficult to monitor and control . 
 through quiet determin and hard work , she rose through the rank of fidel invest , the giant mutual fund compani , becom a respect portfolio manag of `` junk '' bond . 
 `` he has been liken to ronald reagan , a populist with no real interest in the detail of govern and hard intellectu work , `` sonnenfeldt said . 
 `` sometim you have a hard head and you play anyway , you break the glass , then you have to suffer the consequ . 
 there could be some hard feel in this one -- it 's the first time the two team have met sinc calgari defenseman jami macoun broke buffalo star pat lafontain 's jaw with a high stick nov. 16 . 
 `` it 's a hard , rough ride but it 's got a lot of power and it 's amaz how much the aircraft can take . 
 for year , ad maker need a bright idea , hard work and a littl luck to walk away from the clio award show with a golden statuett . 
 jone also say that keep actor in the fold often lead to hard feel among the competitor , which is whi erlendson is care to hush up when the competit is mention . 
 they ve got to take a long , hard look at us now. '' 
 both the hous and senat had vote separ to lift the counsel ban , put them on a collis cours with bush , who throughout his presid has taken a hard line on abort . 
 `` we re go to take a hard look at our oper , look at way to improv our cash flow , way to lower expens at level across the board and continu to make signific reduct in the work forc , `` harrison said . 
 the one leadership qualiti palumbi lack , he acquir through a hard lesson dure his first three year at stanford . 
 i humbl suggest , madam mayor , that you take a hard look at your prioriti . 
 i 'm almost alway amaz at the amount of hard work , time , energi and money that peopl will invest in their restaur when success has veri littl to do with such mundan thing as qualiti of food . 
 music chair -- lawrenc bryan is take leav as artist director of the san jose chamber music societi next year , but there are no hard feel involv . 
 they re use to disciplin , hard work and surmount crummi odd . 
 if i get a littl hard on myself becaus i 'm not do someth right , i remind myself that i 'm there to have fun. '' 
 when `` his '' war did not bring victori and booti , a new group of lord might oust the unsuccess leader , and the common , who usual suppli the hard cash , might be bold enough to demand the product of account , and even at time the impeach of the unsuccess . 
 estonian see no hope but foreign pressur for chang gorbachev 's hard line against baltic independ . 
 `` this is a testimoni to their cooper , hard work and desir to demonstr their concern for our environ and the health and safeti of our community. '' 
 the most interest section of `` the next centuri '' has to do with the career of kazuko inamori , who through hard work and attent to detail built the spectacular success japanes compani call kyocera ( kyoto ceram ) . 
 ford motor co. took a long , hard look at acquir chrysler corp. last winter after ford 's former chairman , donald petersen , carri word that chrysler would welcom such a move . 
 the other compani `` expect altus to do the hard work , `` garamendi said . 
 `` it 's been especi hard on jewish children . 
 i 'm so hard on myself that even though i 'd get good respons , though i ve been veri lucki , i ve alway wonder . 
 ( check ) employ histori are also get a harder look . 
 the bbc-made seri take a hard and most uncensor look at the busi of movie-mak . 
 but the hard truth is that no one realli know how to increas household save , and ira do n't seem well-equip for the job . 
 said martin s. askana , co-own of unit flower and a vendor sinc 1986 : `` we ve invest in these site for a long time and now someon els will come and capit on our hard work. '' 
 but egypt , the onli arab countri to have made peac with israel , took a hard line . 
 call for more resourc to help children and urg a long , hard look at how children 's welfar servic are provid so the system can be overhaul , if necessari , patton said : ; `` this should n't happen in our societi , and it wo n't happen if we do it right. '' 
 fruiti red take well to chill ( if they are n't tannic , in which case chill can make them hard or bitter ) . 
 both stress hard work . 
 for one thing , radiat hose are veri hard on your teeth . 
 they were better live than on record , becaus guitarist mick jone gave the song a harder edg . 
 in a decemb 1984 `` straight talk '' memo that made him a soulmat of former assist secretari of state elliott abram , both as to truth and their approach to the third world , gate advoc `` hard measur '' ( air strike ) vs. `` half measur '' ( the contra ) to destroy the nicaraguan militari , which they view as a threat to american influenc in the western hemispher . 
 they do n't realiz the hard work that is done for their benefit . 
 hop kiln napa gamay had a charact similar to the swan and duxoup wine , but was richer and harder and need lot of time to develop finess . 
 her own talent , hard work and sens of vocat spur her , but two remark poetri workshop , one with john holm , the other with robert lowel , provid the atmospher she need as an apprentic to learn and flourish . 
 about $ 1 billion of the valu came from `` hard '' asset ( factori , offic , paper clip , person comput , chees ) . 
 the group had accus him of `` dog them , `` exchang hard look with other member . 
 miracul progress in materi achiev flow from other qualiti far more worthi and substanti : adher to principl and method conson with our religi philosophi ; a satisfact in hard work ; the readi to sacrific for worthwhil caus ; the courag to meet everi challeng ; the intellectu honesti and capac to recogn the true path of her own best interest . 
 about a dozen low-incom famili chosen by the luck of the draw saturday will get a chanc to substitut a year of hard work for a down payment on hous to be built in morgan hill by the hous author of santa clara counti . 
 ann scitovski , chief of the health econom divis at the research institut of the palo alto medic foundat , said helling 's estim on the cost of treat hiv `` make sens to me , but it 's not base on as hard data as the aid estimate. '' 
 but becaus i thought of her as hard and egotist , i could not believ that she stay with him simpli from affect . 
 is a good man , hard work . 
 would sometim even get a littl hard on you , she took you so serious . 
 i ask becaus i know this will happen in the famili again , and although it may be hard to believ , there were some hard feel about the `` disposition. '' 
 fix them is hard work , but is a possibl project for the ambiti remodel . 
 no hard feel ; jame `` buddi '' ryan sr. is gone from the philadelphia eagl scene , but junior 's still around . 
 `` i 'm glad that my hard work can pay off for other peopl , and i have fun too , `` she said . 
 `` you see a more temper , citizen-ori approach by candid , wherea 10 year ago you may have seen a harder line . 
 analyst believ some american comput compani will take a long , hard look at get into the display manufactur busi . 
 counsel now show me that i am a co-depend , but that with hard work i can pick myself up and becom healthi again . 
 but it is worth the hard work of make these decis in order to allow student who find differ tradit a meaning way to show pride in their heritag as well as in their status as member of the class . 
 actual , that 's when the hard work begin . 
 but last week , that litani of hard feel flow not from arab ' lip , but from isra ' . 
 as salvag oper are often attend by consider hard work and great risk , the oblig to pay compens is so obvious base on the principl of justic that payment has been allow at all time by everi civil countri . 
 ( when the whore are haul off to prison , strip of wig and makeup in the hard light of day , they look like that ragtag group of washington hooker march across a potomac river bridg by the d.c. polic a coupl of year ago. ) 
 just a matter of eas up after 20 year of hard work . 
 yet with rare except ( philip morri is one , incident ) , manag still spend most of their time manag what they can touch -- the rough 10 percent of asset that are `` hard. '' 
 i think we should respect the hard work the committe has done . 
 commit and hard work are the cornerston of children 's theater , not just for fread , but for the children as well . 
 i would go into the read room , where solid silenc was pack hard and green up as far as the bowl of the dome , and walk over , alway , to desk d-4 . 
 `` i had the veri hard impress ( the present ) was slant , `` said ted terraza , who attend a present at meyer school . 
 ( box ) there are no hard rule when it come to the marriag of electr and horticultur . 
 a call for reform ; but hard work doe n't alway mean pay , say activist . 
 `` kid are not read enough ; they re not take hard enough cours . 
 sen. ernest f. holl , d-s.c. , chairman of the senat commerc committe , has put the feder communic commiss on notic that he expect the fcc to take a hard look at ani request for a waiver to the govern 's `` cross-ownership '' rule . 
 the boy tri to make the age-chang voic sound hard , and it might have sound ludicr had it not been for the reckless chill shimmer in cat-yellow eye . 
 the lesson of that book -- that hard work and loyalti and love will endur in tri circumst -- are relat new concept to children just begin to read . 
 but tyrrel acknowledg , `` the troubl with do all this hard research is you kind of get back to what granni use to say. '' 
 ( check ) congress should halt new grant to the intern monetari fund and world bank , and demand a hard balanc sheet from each , with loan written to market valu . 
 i think it is a commit to hard work , an avers to shortcut , a skeptic about utopia , an open mind , a profound human . 
 presid bush , respond to initi report of shamir 's accept , said befor leav kiev that `` this is bound to be good news for peac in the middl east , and i 'm veri veri pleas that the hard work of mani parti , especi our secretari of state , look like it may be come to fruition. '' 
 the name are list on invit and distribut by baymec -- hard proof of polit support that not long ago was ephemer , whisper or given with wink and nod . 
 for play the lead part of two c.o. 's of a highland regiment are alec guin and john mill , the one have won the affect of his men by lead them through the war , and the other a hard , effici newcom who is heartili dislik by the major of the soldier . 
 perhap i should n't be too hard on myself . 
 `` in our view , there need to be a hard look at how we fund higher educ in california , `` hamlett said . 
 i am repel by the lack of hard answer to these question . 
 to my knowledg , there 's no hard and fast rule about how mani mint you should take upon leav a restaur . 
 lender are take a harder look at borrow befor approv home-equ loan or credit line . 
 `` those hard , activ word are seldom associ with females. '' 
 the naacp has alway encourag hard work . 
 even the short-cruis ship are take a hard look at their itineraries. ncl , for exampl , has just chang the rout of it sunward ii , make key west a port of call on it three-day trip , instead of nassau . 
 mauriello was then direct by supervisor to take a long , hard look at the servic and suppli estim her staff made for each counti depart . 
 not like previous fraud ; in fact , even govern critic like polit pollster miguel basanez say they do n't expect the pri to wage the `` hard fraud '' of elect past . 
 `` patienc and a lot of hard work , '' she said last night . 
 the volcan dust that 's been deposit around is veri hard on jet engines. '' 
 he believ in hard work but got his first newspap simpli by ask his father for it . 
 aborigin is not deceiv ; he know that the land is hard and pitiless . 
 with hard work , it succeed , and henri ribb soon becam a promin east side citizen . 
 the oak grove school district learn the hard way that you ca n't count on san jose for good citi plan when power develop take their case to the citi council . 
 thompson bent a hard look at the lawyer . 
 he did n't want player to say thing like that , becaus the team can start to draw rank . . . and it get the media dredg up hard feel that have noth to do with win or losing. '' 
 this countri need to take a hard look at how it doe busi and who should be allow to succeed in the marketplac , not what the feder govern can do to cover up the failur of a few compani . 
 it gave me pleasur to say hard thing '' , he wrote , `` i would shut up forev '' . 
 while roddick 's hard edg can be off-put , her principl are endear . 
 he spoke aloud of his opinion of nbc news as `` a dinosaur , `` an organ whose member seem to believ themselv part of some priesthood immun to the hard imper of profit and loss . 
 keith hearn of the california associ of psychiatr technician commend davi for `` take a hard line against unilater cut . 
 it was easi to take it as a period piec , and appar there were no hard feel all around . 
 sure , that can lead to a few argument and hard feel . 
 the evid support the major conclus of `` eat smart '' is hard and plenti , the guidanc it offer import and valuable. ( box ) 
 never again ; speak of feud or tempera clash , how about the recent hard feel express by art garfunkel about not be invit to perform at simon 's central park concert ? 
 joan beck is right on target when she say that hard work and fact are need to shatter the glass ceil women experi in corpor ( commentari , aug. 14 ) . 
 freelen would n't reveal the list of candid but said , `` we ve taken a hard look at 12 to 14 people. '' 
 take a hard look at your own arm or home-equ line of credit . 
 she say hammer should n't have been surpris that the counti took a hard line on the bond . 
 gave a short hard laugh and look at her know . 
 in term of hard cash , this is calcul to bring in *+20 to *+25 more profit from everi hundr bacon sold , without take into consider the streamlin of labour and the simplif of mix and storag . 
 the cut in the short-term prime business-loan rate by major bank put new light on a key develop under way in the nation mortgag market : the price spread between long-term fix and short-term adjustable-r mortgag has widen to the point where smart money-shopp should take a hard look at adjust . 
 `` but tri to put it into hard point , and number of victori , that 's realli tough . # # # 
 `` the next day , i walk in and talk to coach seifert , and there were no hard feelings. '' 
 `` all the window that i broke as a kid , all the thing that i broke and she had to pay for , she was never a hard mom . 
 `` this is one of those instanc where merit and hard work have paid off , `` said judg gordon baranco , one of armstrong 's colleagu on the alameda counti superior court . 
 we becom firm enough to stand for those ideal which we know to be right , when we becom hard enough to refus to aid nation which do not permit self-determin , when we becom strong enough to resist ani more drift toward social in our own nation , when we recogn that our enemi is communism not war , and when we realiz that concess to communist do not insur peac or freedom , then , and onli then will we no longer be `` soft '' . 
 `` the citi allow offic to be overwork so much they becam hard and cold , `` pugh said in an interview last week . 
 but what doe he get for his hard work ? 
 for mani turnpik , has come hard . 
 yesterday they were back their fanci with hard cash , and share enjoy their best day for a long time . 
 nankin said the board has been take a hard look at the symphoni 's budget , but has made no decis on what to do if the deficit remain larg . 
 after two year of hard work , denic decid to call it quit . 
 the public appear readi to believ that mani institut achiev their athlet goal not through honest effort , but through equivoc , not by hard work and sacrific , but by hook and crook. '' 
 the first women sleuth were so hard that v.i . 
 among defens back , todd bowl , david whitmor , greg cox and kevin lewi will get hard look . 
 that miracl happen to him at maryland state prison , where he was serv hard time for assault a guard , which follow his convict on weapons-possess charg , which follow his earlier manslaught convict for kill a man in a knife fight . 
 neither industri nor the highway administr has hard figur to indic those commut are grow in length . 
 that was 12 year , a lot of hard work and $ 350 , 000 ago . 
 there are no hard feel , `` malon ad . 
 the 32-year-old profession dog handler know that the secret to produc champion is just plain , doggon hard work . 
 it 's a day well spent becaus insur compani like to have the cold , hard fact when you re face with a loss . 
 `` i ca n't give you hard data , `` say loden , `` but if you look at who 's move ahead insid the fortun 500 compani , it 's clear that women are do better than minor , and that white women are do better overal than women of color. '' 
 the video is basic for those of us who find other exercis tape a bit too demand , owe to a general lazi , weak of charact and fear of hard work on our part . 
 and you thought the hard work was behind you . 
 resid there can look forward to some hard work with good social dividend . 
 the hard work pay off though , eylar said . 
 and for anybodi who doe n't mind a littl hard work . 
 sammi hope all the adult learner stick with the program despit the hard work . 
 then again , mayb i have to take a long , hard look at some of the other fragranc on the market . 
 weekend fight between rebel and govern forc in colombia kill 31 peopl , and a newspap report sunday that colombia 's leftist insurg had adopt a new hard line . 
 it doe n't take talent or brain or hard work . 
 i hope that somebodi has taken a long , hard look at what it could cost in properti damag , injuri and possibl death when kid receiv less train than they do today . 
 but this astonish of mine was much increas , when some day after , a storm came upon us , and the captain rush out of the cabin in his nightcap , and noth els but his shirt on ; and leap up on the poop , began to jump up and down , and curs and swear , and call the men aloft all manner of hard name , just like a common loafer in the street . 
 `` all our hard work -- gone ! `` we cri , beat our breast and knuckl our forehead . 
 the young man was a teammat tri to give her a hard time , and the team manag was n't do much to stop it . 
 for two centuri , we ve done the hard work of freedom . 
 but if your broker is regular chang venu , you ought to take a hard look at whether the fast money mean everyth to that person -- and whether he or she is get ahead by generat lot of commiss to earn the titl of `` big produc , `` at your expens . 
 the countri will onli get it money 's worth when it goe through the hard work of set prioriti . 
 bill mccann , general manag of the water district , said , `` if the council were to decid to ask our board to do it ( elimin restrict ) , i 'm sure the board would take a hard look at it. '' 
 hard core of the pro-communist rebel forc number onli some 2,000 tough viet minh guerrilla fighter . 
 but the lender ( who foreclos ) has the respons of sell properti and get the money in a hard market , `` swinson said . 
 `` she was a veri hard , tough woman . 
 but he refus to predict whether he would be abl to cobbl togeth a govern coalit and said he expect three week of hard bargain with all the non-socialist parti . 
 `` it 's hard on you physic . 
 the fourth- , fifth- and sixth-grad at sakamoto elementari school in the oak grove school district in south san jose want hard answer to some tough question from hammer dure her quick stop there as part of a whirlwind tour of district 10 . 
 itali 's decis to adopt a hard line with it third wave of albanian boat peopl appear to be work . 
 golden is look for peopl will to do hard work , and we re have him send you an applic . 
 talk to report in kennebunkport , main , where presid bush is vacat , white hous spokesman marlin fitzwat said : `` the fact is , we do n't have hard inform . 
 unless some hard evid has turn up that free trade in 1992 would have devast effect , we think the delay is unwarr . 
 the author , a former industri film maker , has the knack of weav in hard inform about video product without make you feel corner by a self-absorb film major . 
 syria , israel 's most implac foe , hew to it tradit hard line . 
 the standard , of cours , is veri differ from the hard , expens glitter of west germani . 
 `` i guess we ll find out the hard way ( if circul doe not increas ) . '' 
 it 's a wonder mysteri , which has produc mani theori , but no hard answer . 
 of us would be will to admit that forgiv come hard . 
 english professor herbert lindenberg fear that human depart would suffer the brunt of the budget cut becaus , unlik the hard scienc , they bring in few overhead dollar . 
 one of the chief complaint was that the floodlight from the ceil was too bright , it glare hard on the eye of council member . 
 foreign airlin also are begin to take a hard look at their coach class . 
 to play the hand it has dealt itself , the compani and the uaw assert that they have pull togeth all the hard lesson learn from the japanes , the consult and other about design , engin , technolog , manufactur , labor-manag relat and `` work smart. '' 
 here are these men and women so commit to kid they are will to take on a second job for peanut and give up their free time after a hard day on the regular job and they get a kick in the teeth for it . 
 `` but sometim it is hard work . 
 ed southerland is vice presid of robert half co. of washington , a compani that find job for financi and account peopl , and he defend the stern personnel polici that generat much of his clientel : ; `` somebodi 's got to take a cold , hard look at the number and move on . 
 no one , in fact , defend the content of the seri , and sever speaker from the audienc chide the board for not be hard enough on the textbook . 
 all of this is go to requir some hard work and some imagin , but for the most part i suspect we ll enjoy the process , as well as the final result . 
 i want to thank council member alan loisel and gari mello for their hard work on the fremont citi council . 
 week loss is part counterbalanc by 500 arriv each week from west germani , but the hard truth , say crossman , is that `` the close off of east berlin without interfer from the west and with the use onli of east german , as distinct from russian , troop was a major communist victori , which dealt west berlin a dead , possibl a fatal , blow . 
 he appear to be a solid citizen who has turn himself into an excel defens player through hard work . 
 he said democrat are play `` straight polit , hard ball , `` by show no willing to find middl ground on the matter . 
 she and pete were realli get serious , i 'd have to do some hard think . 
 befor you commit yourself to a career , you need to take a hard look at salari , advanc opportun and the market environ of field you might choos . 
 it is tempt to believ , as so mani american do , that state legislatur live by ronald reagan 's maxim : `` i know that hard work never kill anyon , but i figur whi take the chanc ? '' 
 but despit the hard work he put into his compani , famili member say his first love was fish , an activ he enjoy best on the sacramento-san joaquin river delta . 
 there are few hard explan for the wide dispar between men and women . 
 sayl , never the sunniest of chronicl , here take a long , hard look at the inner citi . 
 but , in american labor polit , he identifi with what he imagin to be `` the hard-lin rank-and-fil parti '' -- unlik support for a compact among labor , busi and govern . 
 but howi work me in after a lot of hard think . 
 `` and it all happen becaus of hard work . 
 etc. : the new york giant and mark bavaro have agre on a financi settlement that end hard feel between the club and the former all-pro tight end , who was waiv becaus of knee injuri . 
 smile at winston , and he saw the hate hard glitter in her eye . 
 whichev team doe n't has a long , hard road . 
 the work is alreadi hard . 
 the san jose museum of art auxiliari 's recent debut fashion show luncheon will be a hard act to follow . 
 and if california doe n't soften it hard line on mount busi regul , other say , the inland empir will never attract the strong manufactur base need to keep growth intact . 
 old gal stare at me with her hard eye , said , `` she did n't call . 
 it can be done , but it need goodwil and hard work . 
 the current recess is caus mani chief execut to take a harder look at technolog spend . 
 after four year of hard work , i was wait for this for a long time . 
 while bush gave iran a pat on the back , his spokesman struck a harder tone . 
 `` the hard work is ahead , and that is take advantag of this . . . tragedi and turn it to produc increas stabil and secur in the middl east , `` scowcroft said on abc-tv 's `` this week with david brinkley. '' 
 `` it was hard work six day a week , but it was a great experi and open door for me , `` said the modest , soft-spoken lam . 
 the hard work has includ caulk the crack in the hous , scrape off old paint and replac crack board . 
 at the end of his hard , long and especi good day , piniella paid a visit to the red ' administr offic , where he quick was stop by an autograph-seek secretari . 
 cheney repeat refus to say that he had achiev hard and fast agreement with ani of the six countri he visit , nor would he reveal ani detail of his talk . 
 the new nintendo `` is go to be a harder sell than peopl origin anticip , `` he said . 
 the wine have six or seven month in bottl to settl down and gain some harmoni ; they were a bit hard when they first arriv last spring . 
 the hard work and care is evid , by both the care prepar meal and the friend atmospher . 
 after all , he said , there 's hard work involv -- everi volunt will be expect to attend week meet for six month . 
 much of what i learn was no surpris -- the hard work , dedic and enthusiasm of the teach staff was pretti inspir stuff to me , the jade busi execut . 
 year of hard work and save often get lost in the process . 
 that mean take a long , hard look at your spend to see what can be cut . 
 he was sidetrack by his first real love , fanci car , and after year of hard work found himself the owner of a chain of bay area auto bodi shop that special in bmws and merced . 
 write 's hard work , all right , but it doe n't take up a lot of canin 's day . 
 are conscienti , hard work , honest , accur , a good penman , and a stickler for a job well done , with no loos end . 
 i admit that i may be a littl hard on quayl , but should n't we , as a nation , expect more from our vice presid ? 
 we just ca n't let hard work and drive creat favor environ for those will to make the effort as oppos to those unwil to do so . 
 ( check ) those who had mentor most frequent cite dedic , hard work , intellig and enthusiasm as the characterist that led to mentor choos them . 
 the next day , flaherti learn the hard number : mineta owe $ 5 , 027 to the congression dine room . 
 the report urg lawmak to take a hard look at the tax break `` whose rational and object are no longer valid or of low priority. '' 
 henc the agreement last week , after two-day 's hard bargain among the communiti 's foreign minist , to delet ani mention of a `` feder goal '' in the draft treati be prepar for maastricht in favor of a refer to `` an ever closer union of the state and an administr as close as possibl to it citizens. '' 
 all black peopl are beneficiari of special race-bas assist ; no black succeed becaus of famili , teacher , intellig , hard work or good charact . 
 affirm action is there to help peopl who , despit hard work and drive , might not be hire , promot or admit into prestigi univers becaus of their gender or race . 
 presid bush tri to patch up an embarrass split with his desert storm command thursday by telephon gen. h. norman schwarzkopf to reassur him that there are no hard feel . 
 in these area , they say , a littl hard work can truli pay off when it come time to sell . 
 valdiosera 's stori can be view as the affirm of the american dream : regardless of your origin , you can overcom the most difficult obstacl to get what you want through hard work and determin . 
 match the appropri card with the monitor ( most dealer can get this basic step right ) and , abov all , take a long , hard look at the screen . 
 there are still no hard answer to the question of what drove lewiston , a nation known innov of lung transplant techniqu , to such a complic emot life . 
 her sloppi phrase was the aural equival of a drunk bump into light pole and garbag can after a hard night on the town . 
 fed up by that , the player union has hire a new front man , bob goodenow , whose negoti team is take a harder line against the owner than ever befor . 
 today , the gate sound somewhat date , lack the emot forc of the `` hard '' gospel singer , but they show a side of gospel that is often overlook -- it consumm technic expertis and profession . 
 `` there are no hard feel , `` humphrey said . 
 it is the road that might reward hard work and disciplin , that might reward intellig , that might be fair and provid equal opportun . 
 that 's the hard truth citi council member present when they pass a $ 66 million general fund budget for fiscal 1992 that will trim program and servic to make up a $ 2.5 million shortfal . 
 the mercuri news publish a glitzi cover stori to highlight it home section , admit not a portion devot to hard news . 
 `` at first the guy on the other team realli give me a hard time , `` she said . 
 `` he also has great strength that he 's develop through hard work. '' 
 in a 1960s survey , near 60 percent of american believ `` hard work alway pay off. '' 
 fleer : the player are suppos to `` leap right off '' the card becaus of pastel background that appear to reced insid a hard green border . 
 `` lotteri are move toward harder form of gambl to deflect critic from their stagnant sale , and state are look toward harder form of gambl , envis that they will generat the revenu that lotteri did , `` said michael jone , whose chicago-bas market promot compani special in game . 
 she had an instant 's glimps of grey eye , hard as steel , then his lip were on her . 
 `` after this action , you re go to get hard posit . 
 but bellami 's versatil stem from hard work behind the scene , friend said . 
 rosaldo said some crack dealer possess `` horatio alger valu '' of hard work and self-reli . 
 there was a hard , bitter edg in his voic as he accus feder prosecutor of hound him while ignor wrongdo by white offici . 
 take a hard look at the present success and failur in your yard , especi plant that are suffer from freez damag . 
 they see stori of a young man from a broken famili who rais himself out of abject poverti with the help of stern but love grandpar , who instil in him the valu of hard work . 
 the committe releas a memorandum written by gate in 1984 , when he was director of the cia 's analysi branch , advoc a far harder line against leftist nicaragua than the administr was then pursu . 
 they like the democrat better on the `` soft '' issu ; but until they re convinc the democrat are safe on the `` hard '' issu , they wo n't put them in charg of the execut branch . 
 tone is the weakest part of his equip ; it tend to be hard and colorless . 
 smith receiv prais thursday from school offici , fellow truste and even recal support for his intellig , hard work and dilig . 
 but with help from campbel 's offic and a year of hard work , he tap corpor and privat donor for $ 60 , 000 . 
 but the hard truth is that for a 55-year-old worker worri about his or her job a goodby bonus is an offer he or she usual ca n't refus . 
 today , thank to a lot of industrywid soul search and hard work , it mean someth quit differ . 
 if this is what you are do , you should not be bill your client for hard work , which they can plain see they are not get . 
 `` i want to work veri hard for the next four , five year and be abl around 65 to say to myself , ok , you should slow down . ' 
 not onli do we rememb them for their great accomplish in a hard-work lifetim but we are grate that they hand on their knowledg to other . 
 `` the torkelson ' is a love show , but they re wedg in between two hard , adult comedi , `` he said . 
 she 's also hard at work on an autobiographi . 
 but her hard work and talent earn her the second princess titl -- and an invit from the owner of the step by step danc group in san francisco to join the group . 
 the 1986 was a littl hard and need a few more year of age , but it was the 1987 that stole the show . 
 nbc news presid michael gartner said in a statement issu sunday that the trip was neither `` hard news nor journalist signific , and we disclos through on-air credit that facil and air fare were provid to us. '' 
 lean from the hard work and tan from the long hour in the sun , gallucci laugh as he describ how he and eight other dredger file claim with sp for compens for the nine day they could not work . 
 after appl exceed $ 5 billion in sale , graziano said , `` we took a hard look at our busi and our posit in the industri . 
 `` i am go to take a hard look at each oper segment , and we may have to do adjust in particular area , `` amelio said . 
 `` some make a mystic of this declar , but it is hard common sens ; for the lesson you will learn from me is this : everi kingdom over which we reign must be first form within us on what i as a bicycl look upon as the common parad ground of individu thought. '' 
 author have counterattack with old-fashion hard work , like piec togeth shred evid , and by develop a corp of their own electron expert . 
 the 53-year-old mayor spent near $ 1 million on his re-elect -- most money from busi and downtown interest -- but drop sever percentag point after three month of hard campaign . 
 there is no hard evid that the mercuri in dental fill pose ani health threat despit concern rais last year by a canadian studi and a report on `` 60 minut , `` a government-sponsor panel of expert unanim said wednesday . 
 had a hard voic , too , this time . 
 a duti teacher put his back into his work and is apt to be hard and unbend . 
 hard igneous rock , such as granit , made servic weight , reason impervi to moistur and capabl of withstand hard wear and exposur . 
 he said that `` on this journey we will reaffirm the valu of our ancestor -- hard work , determin , will , thrift , product , persever . 
 not onli is music essenti as a reflect of our cultur , argu teacher david anderson , it also teach student the valu of hard work and cooper , rais self-esteem and often translat into higher grade and test score in subject more common regard as basic skill . 
 pretti hard on him '' . 
 do the hard work of freedom . 
 a good old-fashion breakfast - and realli good breakfast dish are among the most pleas form of food - is appreci by the energet , as a prelud to a day 's walk or climb or fish in the holiday , or as a good basi for a day of hard work ; even on sunday it is someth to sustain you for perus of the newspap , though not the best aid to keep awak dure a long sermon . 
 `` but did he excel by sheer dint of hard work ? `` the time ask . 
 `` do the play befor a sea of veri hard men , i felt this eeri kind of power . 
 i 'm hard on myself . 
 it 's the culmin of a decad of hard work and risk-tak by the 31-year-old west virginia nativ , who has seen six of her song hit no. 1 on the chart , and recent releas her seventh album , `` time pass by. '' 
 here are my note on the wine in the order in which they were tast : ; ( box ) 1988 echezeaux : smoki and tast of brown sugar , pretti and live with hard tannin ; close and young , charm but simpl and quit forward. ( 90 ) there are 94 acr in this appel of which drc own 11 . 
 their loyalti and hard work have great contribut to the success of the compani . 
 what make him differ is his profess ; he 's a big-money ballplay in the public eye and there are number , hard and fast number such as 21 and .201 , that strong suggest he 's bring his problem to work . 
 q : when you were work out your deal at elektra , did you have a hard time persuad the execut to let you do this album ? 
 presid bush prais the ec action and said washington was `` take a hard look '' at whether to impos sanction . 
 no one has hard number to prove it , but languag expert insist that more u.s. compani are reach that conclus . 
 dole urg that the naacp `` should come back to america , where equal opportun and hard work are valu embrac not onli by judg thoma , but by the overwhelm major of american , both white and black. '' 
 he want bad to tell him how sorri he was for the hard , offhand way he had sometim behav to him . 
 `` a belief in the valu of hard work and industri ( is ) the basi for social and econom good , `` the report said . 
 in five year as director of san jose repertori theatr , near has explor provoc topic such as the surviv of love in a hard world ( `` arm and the man , `` `` burn patienc '' and `` a streetcar name desir '' all came from that season ) ; the illus of success ( that was the year of `` all my son , `` `` the rainmak '' and `` orphan '' ) ; and the aftereffect of loneli ( `` fenc , `` `` the caretak , `` `` dracula '' and `` the geographi of luck '' ) . 
 `` our peopl definit thought it was hard work , but everyon agre it was worth it , `` recal sun 's volunt coordin , jennif sim . 
 there were no hard feel between the weed . 
 `` that 's perfect ok , but it 's hard on individu people. '' 
 there were firemen and policemen and ambul , and the eye of the spectat were hard with disast . 
 famili member recal saturday how , with hard work , he was abl to success re-establish his famili . 
 the american peopl are now learn the hard way how difficult it is to act in accord with cool and ration principl when a suppos vital nation interest is threaten by a dictat with a high charg weight of public emot drive him forward . 
 for million of reader his name was synonym with action , intrigu , suspens and mysteri , but green did not think he had talent , just patienc and a penchant for hard work . 
 after the approv , if i rememb the figur right , of some seven propos long-dist rout -lrb- it was six or seven , or someth of that order -rrb- , which meant a great deal of hard work for the commiss and in survey on the spot , even now , more than ten year after this work began , none of these long-dist rout is yet complet open to walker or to horsemen in these beauti area . 
 but for a varieti of reason -- not least among them the liabil and the cost of accid -- sever polic depart have begun to take a harder look at chase , particular for traffic violat . 
 while the baltic republ have been plan their independ move for year and are certain to go ahead , `` with the other , when they take a good hard look at the consequ , it may caus a lot of the republ to reconsider. '' 
 `` listen to me , my man , '' he said grim , as he laid a hard hand on fred 's arm . 
 there is no one more devot , more commit to the hard work of freedom , than everi soldier and sailor , everi marin , airman and coast guardsman -- everi man and woman now serv in the persian gulf . 
 soledad sit on the floor of a dri , flat valley in farm countri , a cluster of off-whit barrack encircl by a high fenc , under a sun as hard as the wind , bright and relentless . 
 shakespear 's famous tragedi took a harder line , of cours , with bodi all over the stage , and now jane smiley present us with a new version , set on an iowa farm in 1979 , that is , in it way , as intellig , compel , complex and heartbreak as his . 
 but he say the rand data may persuad doctor to take anoth hard look at their chiropractor colleagu . 
 but then it was , damn , when are we go to get home ? ' `` ; in cold , hard term -- five game , six week and 11 , 590 mile from now . 
 presid bush ask american on tuesday night to share in the `` hard work of freedom '' by defeat tyranni in the persian gulf and embrac volunteer and individu initi at home . 
 dure this recess and hard econom time , i am grate that i have a steadi job that i enjoy . 
 for all the hard work and all the pain you go through period , it is a magnific profess . 
 havemann suggest that consum who expect to be in their home for onli three to five year take a hard look at discount-r adjust . 
 `` we re take a hard look at ourselv , `` defens end pierc holt said . 
 `` he was essenti an uneduc man , but through hard work and determin , with his wife , they becam landown . 
 but beyond the claim of hard necess , wilson has argu that cut welfar support should be view as a benefici becaus it will encourag work effort . 
 on one level , he is state a hard truth . 
 brother karl was a veri gentl soul , her mother was a quiet woman who said littl but who had hard , probe eye . 
 those onli are worth have which come as the result of hard fight . 
 but , baker said , `` it is the firm hope and desir and wish of my govern , of my presid that we will not let what could be a histor opportun pass for want of a willing to commit ourselv to do the real hard work of peace. '' 
 but american 's student had to take a hard look at their school , which program they would like to keep , which one they can do without . 
 he said he had no hard feel about lose his post . 
 in a speech thursday in baltimor , shamir took a hard line on the negoti with the arab , say isra need to hold onto former arab land to protect itself against surround `` tyranni and dictatorships. '' 
 that includ sprint-boat race ( whatev that is ) , as mike woodger and chris paddon learn the hard way in melbourn , although neither was injur when the 400-horsepow boat hit an embank . 
 `` investor also need to know that this market is more volatil . . . so they should take a hard look at the compani befor invest , `` collin ad . 
 there is no way i 'm wast an hour drive to s.f. , anoth hour search for park , after a confus , furious , intens hard day 's work . 
 `` it 's pretti hard work , `` say walter . 
 but kennedi said he believ the hard feel of the campaign had been set asid . 
 ohio state 's jim jackson , who led the team with 19 point , said : `` it 's realli frustrat to go out this way after as hard as we ve work all year . 
 `` we think it 's a veri major breakthrough , `` schoemehl said , `` but the realli hard work still is in front of us. '' 
 mrs. goulart serv as the bookkeep , and her husband say her hard work and attent to detail help make the store a success . 
 there were no hard feel , though . 
 plan to renew graze leas ; it also will take a hard look at a profit sidelin busi -- the leas of 30 , 000 acr to cattl rancher for graze . 
 sever member of the subcommitte , howev , said the govern should take a long , hard look at the futur of the plane . 
 without ever rare back and let go with the hard stuff , harri open the stake for a start job with a fine perform befor a crowd of 8 , 087 . 
 my companion enjoy a healthi slice of the chocol mouss cake , made with a hard chocol crust , top a spong cake with either strawberri or raspberri on the bottom . 
 `` i feel that the hard court is my best surfac overal , `` courier said . 
 water becom stiff and hard as clear stone . 
 statist canada said that of the hard red spring wheat remain in the storag bin of western farmer , about 47 % was of the top grade , up from 46 % last year . 
 lendl , a three-tim u.s. open champion , lead their seri 13-10 and is 2-1 against edberg on hard court this year . 
 onc thicken , the polenta might be enhanc with salt , pepper , a ground hard chees such as asiago or romano and season with fresh herb , such as chop basil , sage or oregano . 
 `` play at the stick , you get a lot of spike mark that stay in the dirt becaus the ground is so hard . 
 down , whose annual shoulder troubl appar was remedi with surgeri last april , threw progress better this spring but develop an inflam big right toe as his foot rub the hard arizona dirt dure his follow-through . 
 the advent of astroturf mean player are move faster and hit a harder surfac . 
 the crystal make the varnish extrem hard , `` probabl 100 time tougher '' than varnish use on violin for the last 150 year , and explain the mysteri of the old violin ' uniqu sheen , he say . 
 my onli complaint here is that the industrial-strength roll is too hard on the outsid and too thick . 
 one sell at $ 1 ,695 ; the other cost $ 600 more for a `` hard '' disk store 10 ,000 page of data . 
 the 50 paint and 60 work on paper in the show consist larg of geometr reduct of the human form -- all hard line and kaleidoscop construct . 
 snow was hire to bring a harder edg and ideolog spirit to bush 's speech as he move toward the 1992 elect . 
 worker care scrape away 19 inch of hard dirt on top of the vault of dr. carl austin weiss , who die in a hail of bullet along with long in 1935 . 
 the dri period is import : it may take as long as a month for a cut to `` callus off , `` or form a hard , leatheri seal -- but long say when a fresh cut is put in a pot medium without the callus , it usual rot . 
 on the day befor the lockerbi explos , the two libyan flew from libya to malta with a larg , brown , hard-sid samsonit suitcas . 
 the spotlight will be on hard red winter wheat , which is primarili use for export and to make bread . 
 the berkeley-bas compani said it product , which must be refriger , is more like mouss than candi sinc the truffl that have hard chocol shell are high in cream content and low in sugar . 
 the hard , boxi edg have been round for a more aerodynam appear . 
 lump of a veri dark and hard ferrugin sandston , recal a tropic laterit , can also be found with ironstain purbeck slab in the surround arabl field . 
 as reynold prepar to introduc camel nineti nine , a longer-length cigarett in a hard pack ; continu test horizon , a brand that it promot as have improved-aroma smoke , and prepar an imag overhaul for it flagship winston brand , it doe so without public or public relat campaign . 
 if the exist surfac is made of wood , you may not have to instal a hard floor such as ceram tile , stone or vinyl over it . 
 `` it was an ordinari green ford consul with a hard top - like an ordinari saloon . 
 but carlton said the money was in a hard cardboard box when he hand it to the aid for deliveri to noriega . 
 shin and knee guard -- made of hardplast , they are similar to the shin guard worn by catcher in basebal . 
 even though we use cold , filter water in our tea kettl , it has develop a hard , crack gray crust on the bottom dure the few month we ve been here . 
 as the scar tissu grow to form a thick capsul around the implant , it can caus the breast to becom hard and sometim sore . 
 boy will be in dark pant , tri-corn hat and hard-sol shoe . 
 malaysia 's electron industri is between a rock and a hard place . 
 a general rule to keep in mind is that when cook chees it should be done on medium unless it is a hard chees such as grate parmesan or romano . 
 jeffrey edelman , an analyst at drexel burnham lambert inc. , said penney also has done `` a veri good job of place more emphasi on profit soft good , while move out of less profit hard-good categori such as electron and sport good . '' 
 littl boo , with their hard white skin , are not for cook . 
 as the name suggest , a green plantain has a hard bright green skin . 
 rub the swab at the point on the roof of the mouth where the hard surfac becom soft , known as the junction of the hard and soft palat . 
 they said the pasta was too hard . 
 perhap fmc should knock off the tank tread and put on rubber tire , replac the 5 mpg engin with more effici one , replac the hard seat with soft cushion , and mark down the price a wee bit to compet with other luxuri car . 
 not everybodi mind nois as much as i do , but in the wooden mountain hous , all hard surfac , even a small crowd can rattl the window . 
 this box sheet was then extend up the length of the lock in the form of a 2 ft wide trench in order to drain the head of the lock , the trench be fill with hard core over drain . 
 the inton waver again and again in the stravinski `` apollo , `` and the sound textur in the puccini piec turn hard and unyield . 
 but hard-cov alway have had a few refug . 
 onion seed have a hard seed coat . 
 good job have been disappear from this hard-scrabbl river town for year . 
 becker match lendl 's nine ace but won this match with his more dynam net play , dive and roll on the hard court as if frolick on grass . 
 it differ flavor result from it fire in a hard-seasoned-wood , brick oven . 
 in the slow bore of hard board , congress and the presid keep hit bit -- break knot -- the deficit , health care and educ polici , the environ , our rot infrastructur . 
 rag scrubland and manicur lawn had the same bleak blanket of hard gray crust . 
 there was no time for rejoic , but the hard , firm shape of the automat sent a new confid surg through his bodi . 
 she alway has been attract to contradictori impuls , the `` dual natur '' suggest by the exhibit 's titl : hard vs. soft , feminin vs. masculin . 
 he said the blister was caus by drag his foot on a hard mound while pitch in arizona . 
 i ve heard that mani women spritz and spritz until even the split end are hard enough to cut glass . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 most of the time the chang is increment , in the evoc word of max weber , `` a strong and slow bore of hard boards. '' 
 that record-break hard freez ravish tropic and mediterranean plant in bay area garden . 
 the dri period is import : it may take as long as a month for a cut to `` callus off , `` or form a hard , leatheri seal -- but long say when a fresh cut is put in a pot medium without the callus , it usual rot . 
 the play equip , sand and hard surfac for handicap access cost about $ 160 , 000 , said lincoln fong , senior landscap architect for the citi . 
 this time on the hard court of the mint green nation tenni center the match was a fit finish to a day that featur victori by a parad of australian open champion -- edberg , the 1985 and 1987 winner , ivan lendl the 1989 and 1990 winner , and mat wiland the 1983 , 1984 and 1988 winner . 
 these includ cover a cake with a hard glaze of sugar and gelatin or use wood as a temporari frame for float sculptur . 
 when collagen form , women are like to develop a fibrous `` capsul '' around the implant that becom hard and sometim sore . 
 silicon carbid 's problem is that , becaus it 's so hard , it 's also brittl , and thus vulner to impact stress . 
 it blond tint were as fresh and endur as enamel , -- and quit as hard . 
 general , a novic sandblast can remov the old paint , but not without cut into soft grain while leav hard grain virtual untouch . 
 the handset he had been hold clatter against someth hard ; it had been drop or yank loos . 
 intim surfac of the aorta was cover with confluent , yellow-brown , hard , friabl plaqu along it entir cours , and there was a mark narrow of the orific of the larg major viscer arteri . 
 on his own garag door he found that the open revers when it struck the hard block but crush a cardboard box -- a materi that one assum more close repres peopl . 
 but i find that , when sit with my spinal column bent at a 45-degre angl and my knee ram into a hard , knotti slab of oak , my attent span tend to shorten consider . 
 `` i felt noth but my head and shoulder blade press on the hard slab beneath my back . 
 like a chocol easter bunni , rotate mold plastic product have a hard skin but are hollow insid . 
 easter egg to go : peopl who do n't have time to dye their own can now buy hard-boil and pre-color rainbow egg . 
 wednesday : day 4 ; in the morn there were ice patch on the stream , and the ground was frozen hard as we start our eight-mil hike to kibo hut . 
 last winter 's hard frost caus some of the new growth tip to go limp , but they quick recov . 
 most hard chees are higher in satur fat than meat . 
 i have perform a number of oper on these type of ear , and i can assur you that this is extrem hard bone . 
 said trevor wilson , who pitch the giant ' first eight inning : `` mitch is hard as a rock , so i do n't think it bother him any. '' 
 age 1 to 3 : 2 to 3 serv daili ; one serv would be 1/2 to 3/4 cup milk ( for children under 2 year of age , serv onli whole milk , not low-fat or skim milk ) , 1/2 to 3/4 cup yogurt , 1 ounc hard chees , or 1/4 cup cottag chees , pud , ice milk or ice cream . 
 the interior is over chintzi , with hard and uncomfort seat and fabric that feel cheap . 
 i like the low-fat ( no shorten but with nut or chocol ) better than the no-fat , which i found dri and hard . 
 instrument is shown in fig. 1 and consist essenti of a hard , sharp , tungsten carbid knife which is push along the substrat to remov the coat . 
 his game is made for hard court , but the court here are fast , and there are no bad bounc . 
 bumper sought the moratorium becaus his propos to impos a 5 percent royalti on gold , silver and other hard-rock miner mine on feder land has been stall for year in the senat energi and natur resourc committe , which is domin by western . 
 but both chain aggress promot the latest mass-market hard-cov best seller , put them in the front of each store or along the main thoroughfar , the `` power aisl . '' 
 howev , as the fifth hous in that row is the hous of scientist , the occup of which were not amen to evict no matter how worthi the caus , bori piotrovski soon found himself between a rock and a hard place . 
 the skin is cover with hard , bubblelik scale , and mattson is labori construct the boot one stitch at a time , slip the needl of his sew machin care between the scale . 
 some say the implant make their breast hard and sore . 
 in field hockey , in which girl chase a solid , hard-plast ball with wooden stick , the shin pad use meet nation standard and are requir to be worn at all time . 
 as they matur into adulthood , the grasshopp develop a rock-hard exoskeleton and the abil to fli the length of a footbal field . 
 now an atlanta businessman , mr. scherer sever all tie with the compani in 1979 in a disput with some board member , includ mr. fink , on how to run the maker of hard- and soft-shel capsul use to hold drug , vitamin and bath oil . 
 the rain , along with the plenti ogallala aquif that is pump for irrig in this part of nebraska , has left the field of alfalfa , corn and hard red winter wheat in good shape . 
 the soviet union will suppli 1.5 million cubic meter of timber a year , most hard pine , and china will provid coal , salt , electr , oil and other materi , the news servic said . 
 on a hard surfac or wood , the clack of these heel is inappropri in public place . 
 life saver hole , a pellet version of the hard candi , are be withdrawn from store nationwid after four teen-ag swallow or gag on the packag ' plastic top , compani offici said . 
 mr. ohma 's latest book , `` beyond nation border : reflect on japan and the world '' -lrb- dow jones-irwin , 128 page , $ 16.95 -rrb- , abli translat into english by the author and some mckinsey colleagu , sold more than 300 ,000 hard cover copi in japan . 
 my breath , and the veri ground becom as hard as flint . 
 note : cinnamon red hot are small red candi slight harder than jelli bean , avail in the bake section of supermarket . 
 ( box ) sun hong kong restaur , 91 shattuck squar ( i.e. , shattuck avenu at addison ) , berkeley , ( 510 ) 841-2288 , is a bright , hard-surfac , contemporari chines cafe that fill it two small floor of tabl until 2 a.m. by sell a long and interest menu supplement by a separ menu of soup , noodl dish and rice plate at extrem low price . 
 now their view is one of miseri -- hard earth blanket with discard water bottl and human wast , weari children in tatter cloth line up for ration . 
 sometim tap the pot on a hard surfac will loos the cramp plant , but you may have to use a screwdriv to pri it out . 
 the priest bear the holi relic -- the refere carri the puck , a rock-hard piec of black rubber -- drop it in the face-off at center ice , and the contest begin . 
 so hard-cov still have one advantag , after all . 
 in common with mani lock of earli date , no hard floor was provid between the mass concret lock wall , although timber baulk of substanti section were set in the earth floor to act as strut between the base of the wall . 
 you re trap between a net and a pack of larg men , who are wield wooden stick and whack hard littl projectil at your head at 120 mph . 
 one of the most import is to provid a relat hard , stabl surfac on which to place the dine tabl and chair ; the other is to make it possibl to cook the meal close at hand . 
 age 4 and 5 : 2 to 3 serv daili ; one serv would be 3/4 cup milk , 3/4 cup yogurt , 1 1/2 ounc hard chees , or 1/2 cup cottag chees , pud , ice milk or ice cream . 
 k mart said that it hard good busi show improv dure januari with the biggest gain in small applianc , home electron , sport good and automot product . 
 she said , smell pugh becaus peopl let dead fish lie on the beach till the fish got hard as rock ; then they scrape off the mold and made fish soup . 
 flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head . 
 i do n't believ you could argu with the basic messag of either book : that somehow the hard face of american capit need to be soften , femin if you will . 
 if you need a color not avail on prefinish pegboard , paint smooth , unfinish pegboard with a urethan enamel for a hard finish . 
 to his dismay , he soon discov that the pastri were as hard as rock . 
 row of metal grave marker and green spike that serv as temporari marker sit in a 200-acr field of orang dirt as hard as bake adob . 
 best of all is `` whitman : a song for occup , `` which juxtapos loop of soft cloth tape stencil with word such as `` house-build '' and `` glass-blow '' spill from a hard-edg steel wall mount . 
 in the offer announc april 30 , the depart assur the soviet they would n't have to pay more than $ 80 a ton for bread-qual hard red wheat . 
 whi corn pop ; the pressur of that expand steam build up becaus popcorn , unlik sweet corn , has anoth layer of starch , this a hard layer that keep the steam insid the kernel until it can resist the pressur no more. pow ! 
 `` it was autumn then and the ground was get hard becaus the night were cold and leav from the mapl around the stadium blew across the practic field in gust of wind and the girl were begin to put polo coat over their sweater . 
 the first hard-cov print is a healthi 150 ,000 copi , and even an abbrevi cassett version will be avail . 
 blow encount silki hair and hard bone . 
 `` as a matter of fact a good hard frost seem to clear the old tube . 
 with a hard bristl brush , he press the dutch metal onto the rail ornament , care work it into each groov of it acanthusleaf pattern . 
 the may 1990 issu of consum report , in an articl rate bicycl helmet , took a general negat view on hard-shel helmet but the bicycl helmet safeti institut say it believ `` the impact rate are not base on current helmet standard . 
 to tell the truth , i thought marbl was much harder. '' 
 the shelf of hard lava , rest on a pile of loos rock , could snap off and dump them in the ocean . 
 light a feed , particular with metal or other hard materi , caus overh of the tool and burn of the cut edg . 
 ( or put a drop into a glass of cold water period until it instant turn into a hard ball. ) 
 we ve gone from be between a rock and a hard place to be between a dog and a hydrant. ' ; clark redek , alameda counti water district board member , on the water crisi . 
 in his first extend interview with report sinc take over the parti chairmanship , yeutter display littl of the hard edg that character atwat 's brand of polit . 
 both transact are instal in a sale of four million metric ton of bread-qual hard red winter wheat that the soviet agre to buy recent after promis of heavi subsidi under the reagan administr 's export-enhanc program . 
 it should feel heavi and not too hard ; it skin should be thick and without ani discolor patch ; it should smell nice but not too strong . 
 they may be inaccur , the steel may be soft -lrb- or possibl too hard -rrb- so that the edg either crumbl or is brittl , or they may not be robust enough for the work they have to do . 
 after the first time , in 1967 , her breast turn hard within month . 
 becaus of this ambigu , `` the plaintiff are in the proverbi posit of be between a rock and a hard place , '' judg mcdonald said . 
 condominium had been charg a higher rate than single-famili home becaus they usual have more hard surfac and thus produc more runoff . 
 latex expand and contract more ( than oil ) and you can run into crack and allig of the top coat , when you put a hard coat ( oil ) over a soft coat ( latex ) . 
 togeth they had sat throw hard , round pebbl into the dark water , and there was a moon that was not a full moon but was nevertheless the finest moon that joe joe had seen up until then . 
 the san jacinto player , most from the east coast , ca n't help feel like exil in this hard bake patch of suburban houston . 
 wine/food match ; red ; ( box ) chianti : grill or roast beef or veal , pasta with veget , light meat or poultri , hard chees . 
 in a six-block radius , there are lesbian bar with chrome-pl harley-davidson motorcycl park outsid , taco stand alongsid szechwan restaur , mexican voodoo parlor fill with ceram figurin of the devil and bar where cappuccino-sip beatnik share tabl with hard-hat construct worker . 
 all piec to becom leather hard befor construct shaker . 
 down , whose annual shoulder troubl appar was remedi with surgeri last april , threw progress better this spring but develop an inflam big right toe as his foot rub the hard arizona dirt dure his follow-through . 
 the fda defer action on the compani 's request for approv of the sweeten , which has the trade name sunett in the u.s. , as an ingredi in confect includ hard and soft candi . 
 the process produc a hard crystallin mass , silicon carbid , which featur veri strong molecular bond and a close-knit structur , much like a diamond . 
 two month have pass , the first brood of robin and cardin have fledg , and the mound of authent , old-fashion nest materi remain direct on the ground between a rock and a hard place , get more unsteril by the day . 
 most all-purpos flour contain a blend of hard and soft wheat . 
 `` when you travel in your own privat yacht , you can afford to have hard-sid luggag becaus you do n't have to pick it off a convey belt , and it 's handl by your staff. '' 
 although it 's extrem hard and durabl , there is n't much thick for sand . 
 vernal pool occur onli in the springtim and are usual found on hard , claypan surfac , so the water is pool dure the spring runoff . 
 `` it 's veri difficult to sell women 's apparel in a store whose reput is hard good , '' said monro greenstein , an analyst at bear , stearn & co . 
 if i push him too far he 'd give me a look out of narrow eye and the hard cruel boni skull would show through that smooth face of his . 
 it wind street and batter storefront appear more real than the real thing ; if you doubt it , just watch visitor tri to tipto across what they think is a sloshi , muddi main drag , actual just a hard surfac sculpt to look like mud . 
 ms. mcglade say that `` hard good sale should continu to hold up better than apparel , '' thank part to the strength in new-hom sale and relat furnish purchas . 
 mr. clark believ firm that the chew of hard food help develop healthi gum and teeth , raw veget and raw whole-wheat grain are hand out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cooki at snack time in the afternoon . 
 ( box ) harvest squash , pumpkin and decor gourd when the vine are dri and the rind hard . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , ; hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , ; pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 some are pop button out of hard plastic sheet with punch machin that look as if they date from the industri revolut . 
 here are a few suggest : ; ( check ) do n't instal equip over hard surfac such as asphalt or concret . 
 third class is sit on hard wooden bench ; mani passeng bring hammock to hang willy-nilli across the head of fellow travel , who do not seem terribl put out by the inconveni . 
 `` the campaign just doe n't move us , '' say mildr wortham , a 34-year-old mother of two who live in the hard-scrabbl rockwel garden hous project , where one young mother recent die of a cocain overdos and a 13-year-old girl was stab and toss from a seventh-floor window . 
 the rear seat was thin and hard , like a park bench . 
 the larger the tool and the harder the materi , the slower the speed . 
 scherer , which make hard-shel and soft-shel gelatin capsul use to hold drug , vitamin and bath oil , earn $ 15.1 million , or $ 1.38 a share , in the year end march 31 , includ a $ 3.7 million credit from tax-loss carry-forward . 
 forecast that hurrican gilbert will bring rain to the hard red winter wheat plant area of texa , oklahoma , colorado , nebraska and kansa spark sell in wheat . 
 rent-a-car compani founder warren avi found that out when he was promot the hard-cov edit of his guid to entrepreneurship , `` take a chanc to be first . '' 
 instead of suntan and souvenir , the indian brought back piec of hard rock call monterey- band chert , which they made into stone knive and spear tip . 
 at the academi , professor still proud show their communist parti card , at a time in soviet histori when the hard red leather-bound document are be burn by demonstr . 
 lens sold for long-term wear come in a hard-plat case or glass vial that last the entir life of the len . 
 de-thatch and aerat hard-pack turf area and appli a fertil to carri the lawn through winter . 
 there are the rose , unexpect dot of color on a neutral ground ; and a play mural soften the hard line of the central corridor in the main wing . 
 she also said their hard shoe and the squeaki pram wheel annoy her . 
 in fine , dri weather this mode of travel was not unpleas , when compar with the heavi vehicl of europ and the hard english turnpik ; but when spring rain drew the frost from the ground the road becam near impass , and in winter , when the river froze , a serious peril was ad , for the susquehanna or the north river at paulus hook must be cross in an open boat , -- an affair of hour at best , sometim lead to fatal accid . 
 when the heat return , the sand is bake into a hard crust capabl of support tank , complic ani u.s. attack . 
 yet when you come upon the stun `` eclat , `` with it hard chrome surfac pleat into delic bow that stretch allur across the wall , you understand her particular eye for beauti . 
 last week 's rail journey of a retir southern pacif steam locomot from south san francisco down the peninsula on it way to sacramento , remind me , fond i want you to know , of trip to the citi on ugli , soot-stain car with hard seat and drink `` fountain '' fill with warm water . 
 the terrain they will have to plod through is most flat desert , with both loos and hard pack sand , but it rise into the mutla ridg just north of kuwait citi , where ani climact tank battl would probabl be wage . 
 grain and soybean : wheat-futur price jump on rumor that the soviet union plan to buy 300 ,000 ton of u.s. hard red winter wheat at $ 99 a ton , the highest price it has paid in two year , said daniel bass , a grain analyst at gnp commod inc. , chicago . 
 you re in a real rock and a hard place , `` la russa said . 
 the design tri sever approach use the hard-shel mammal as an emblem includ an earli one san sunglass but with four cowboy boot . 
 `` she had this hard edg to her , and i did n't like her that way. '' 
 but hard-sid luggag , he say , is the eleg type that peopl carri in the 1920s and 1930s . 
 onc your tummi is hard enough , they ll stop the faucet and push on your tummi so you ll throw up all the water. '' 
 enter the cable-support fabric dome , which with insul cost an averag $ 13 million -- still about a third less than hard shell . 
 hard graze his knuckl . 
 he ad that the inject system also need to be redesign , use harder tungsten carbid materi . 
 the dogloo is made of two sheet of hard plastic with nitrogen bubbl in between for insul . 
 the chicken , frozen hard as stone , smack mani refuge on the head . 
 in a heat hous , howev , more water is advis , as if the plant are kept too dri , they tend to becom so hard that the stem are slow to `` break '' in spring . 
 scherer still make hard shell capsul oversea . 
 `` you put a hard wax on the base of a fiberglass board for speed , `` heitmann explain as we walk across east cliff drive toward the stair that lead to the ocean . 
 it 's flat-sol , low-heel and has a littl more comfort fit -- like a tenni shoe with a hard sole , `` say joe figueroa , vice presid of sale and market for the fort worth-bas compani , which provid all the boot in the movi . 
 the hard freez last decemb gave the peoni extra fine bloom this year . 
 common practic now is to cultiv rot-resist tomato , harvest them while they are still green and hard , and gas them to make them look red . 
 formosan termit have harder mandibl , the better for tear off chunk of soft metal , and their coloni run to the ten of million , compar with the subterranean who are content to stay in the hundr of thousand . 
 all three varieti have what i call a good crunch factor -- crunchi enough to hold up under dunk , but not so hard that you feel as if you were high tackl by ronni lott . 
 `` he was n't big by today 's standard -- he was 5-11 and 185 pound -- but he was rock hard . 
 ( box ) as the resin bead remov the miner , they slowli get satur with `` hard '' materi . 
 `` it 's not like peopl did n't know that rubber get hard at low temperatur . 
 on the flip side , too much light or too much fertil can make a plant too compact with tight , hard and brittl center . 
 `` we ve gone from be between a rock and a hard place to be between a dog and a hydrant , `` board member clark redek said . 
 q my new 1990 nissan hard bodi pickup throw out heavi , black smoke in the cool morn . 
 good look , hard bodi , cloth , money , car , possess , etc. , do n't even make the list. '' 
 cavern depth , clutter with antiqu , echo to her hard heel as she walk direct to the offic in the rear and took the seat at his desk . 
 the handl is a thick combin of smooth curv and hard line . 
 i ll return to school as long as it 's not a crowd campus , i do n't need a park permit , have to sit in a crowd classroom in a chair made from recycl hard plastic , watch televis , read a text , or be requir to do homework . 
 if onli the big chees had stroll through the airport as i was bed down on a hard plastic chair for half a night , i could have told him a thing or two about `` friend , `` old and new . 
 he had a moustach of sweat , a hard , factori mouth , and blue , unwil eye . 
 `` you can serv it as an appet , entre , veget and dessert , use it when it 's hard and green , soft and ripe , and at everi stage in between. '' 
 now in it 10th print , the book has sold 155 ,000 copi in hard cover sinc april and has been among the 10 best-sel book in the countri sinc june , astound both mr. hirsch and his publish , houghton mifflin co . 
 `` we re caught between a rock and a hard place where investor are concern , tri to figur out what this trade number mean , '' mr. greenwald said . 
 marbl cherub , for exampl , and carv marbl fireplac had been attack with hard blunt object . 
 hoya would be the plural mean , `` hard as rocks. '' 
 despit all the effort to sell `` charm school , '' mr. hoffman conced that so far waldenbook ' hard-cov sale of the book have total onli 9 ,000. -lrb- warner wo n't disclos overal sale but say it print just under 100 ,000 hard-cov copi and plan 1.2 million in paperback. -rrb- 
 older model , made out of a hard , stiff rubber , provid no spring and forc the ampute to pull his artifici leg through each step with his hip . 
 athlet learn sudden , with one hamstr , one achill tendon , what the rest of us learn more slowli : that the bodi betray , and that our skull are hard becaus they protect the onli part that realli mean anyth . 
 oil develop hard , smooth film when they dri and form resinlik substanc . 
 when buy radish , look for firm , hard-flesh and unblemish one . 
 in 1986 , bantam spent $ 250 ,000 for `` showdown , '' the highest price paid for north american hard-cov right to a foreign novelist at the time . 
 bean are toss about in a motion much like that of a cloth dryer and coat with sugar and color until their hard , shini shell develop . 
 we feel caught between a rock and a hard place . 
 import of a hard , abras resist knife materi like the carboloy employ in the hesiomet immedi becom appar . 
 paint , hard : brush with hot vinegar . 
 `` oh , i rememb the strawberri ' from slide on hard clay with no pad . 
 `` prior convict '' find jansson , onc a red-diap babi , now a disaffect lawyer , caught between a rock and a hard place . 
 when an object was place in the patient 's hand , he had no difficulti determin whether it was warm or cold , sharp or blunt , rough or smooth , flexibl , soft , or hard ; and he could tell , simpli by the feel of it , whether it was made of wood , iron , cloth , rubber , and so on . 
 `` for dessert , you can not improv on hard cooki on which to sharpen your teeth or to dunk in ani linger wine . 
 the fenc are a lot harder in oakland than there were in portland , ore . 
 north carolina has been a leader in the polici of retreat , believ it is better to let beach move natur than to fight the ocean with sea wall , jetti and other hard structur . 
 unlik relat soft canva or polyest wallpap line , veneer wall cover are relat hard when appli with adhes ; a finger will not leav a depress . 
 but then , when she first sat down , i did n't notic the paper bag she carri -- the bag fill with individu wrap hard candi , into which she steadili dip her hand . 
 she would not lie relax and peac , as though she were rest , but iron hard , as though she were still fight . 
 scar tissu has made his right hand brick-hard . 
 the basic rule is this : the harder the materi and the larger the drill diamet , the slower should the speed be . 
 a good sever feet around the pool should be neither greensward nor wood , but good hard pavement . 
 to speed the cool process , you can put the ganach in the freezer , but you must check it to make sure it doe n't becom too hard to scoop out with a teaspoon . 
 the biggest cut were made in the at & t pc 6300 plus line ; the price of an entri model with a singl floppi disk drive fell 38 % to $ 1 ,590 , and the price of the top-of-the-lin model with a `` hard '' disk store the equival of 20 ,000 page of data was cut 29 % to $ 3 ,065 . 
 with it attent to cultur and histori , it concern for the state 's fragil coastal environ , and it visual layer of line-art , photograph and map , the `` guid '' -lrb- edit by madg caughman and joann s. ginsberg , univers of california press , $ 29.95 hard-cov , $ 14.95 paperback -rrb- emerg as a fulli realiz work -- one that may be fundament imposs to improv upon . 
 for a hard kernel of uncertainti chafe beneath our well-b , mr. presid . 
 in north america , the tortilla is often fri hard . 
 onion bulb ca n't grow and expand in hard , adob soil . 
 the drought has hit durum wheat hard and other spring wheat even harder . 
 1 ounc hard chees , slice ( cheddar , swiss or fontina ) ; 1 slice whole wheat bread , toast ; 1 tablespoon salsa ; place chees on top of toast bread on microwave-proof plate . 
 the combin was suppos to make first republicbank texa 's domin financi institut ; instead , it $ 24.1 billion loan portfolio has wither in the state 's hard-scrabbl economi . 
 cut piec on plaster board to dri to firm leather-hard state . 
 while roper declin to comment further on it chang of heart , mr. sankey said that `` the board was caught between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 seed of hard , fibrous , stoni fruit , call nut , provid high concentr food , oil , and other materi of valu . 
 the list includ anyth by jacquelin susann , plus all diet book , `` garfield '' book , complet crossword puzzl book , ani paperback unless it 's unavail in hard cover , and selfhelp book . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , ; mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , ; pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 the unlucki man in the middl sail into a side wall , while the ball ricochet off the hard plastic divid protect the wide-ey spectat from such crazi . 
 enter , if you pleas , 35 comfi littl cabin in the wood -- specif 35 littl tent cabin in the huckleberri campground area of the big basin redwood state park , just a rock and a hard place north of boulder creek off highway 9 . 
 look for good qualiti import oliv , prosciutto and other slice meat , italian hard and soft chees , prepar salad plus focaccia and other bread . 
 here are some tip to help you enjoy garlic : ; ( check ) buy -- clove should be big , plump and hard . 
 ( most hard-sid cooler , unless they are vacuum bottl , specifi that they are not to be use for hot foods. ) 
 it 's a bold gambl in the hard-scrabbl economi of texa , but the fdic also grant the north carolina compani substanti protect against further texa loan loss . 
 the biscotti from my youth were lemon yellow , tast most of anis and were as hard as a rock . 
 the field is too far away , too mani seat are hard wooden plank , and that `` wacki , hilari '' stanford band has becom unhip and bore . 
 when the second coat begin to set ( get hard ) , trowel it with a wood float , work in a circular motion . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 `` i 'd alway had a hard edg to me , which was intensifi by the year i spent in vietnam , `` he said . 
 i almost never buy new hard cover book becaus i ca n't afford them . 
 there 's magic -- food that get soft when cook ( carrot and potato ) , food that get hard when cook ( egg and cooki dough ) , food that metamorphos ( cream into butter , egg white into meringu ) , food that shape-shift ( popcorn , homini , tortilla and polenta ) . 
 one admir the invent interplay of hard , tuski form and vulner belli without be in the least move by the tortur . 
 after share a deep fri combo appet ( $ 7.95 ) , whose fish and shellfish were thick bread , fri hard and almost indistinguish , we were pleasant surpris to find that `` saute scallop '' meant a larg portion in a hot oval bake dish , float in a sauc of butter , garlic , white wine and lemon , garnish with parsley and grill green onion and serv with mushroom over rice , and that `` bake swordfish '' did not mean dried-out . 
 may be person on back while clay is leather hard . 
 it bestknown author is erma bombeck , whose book have sold more than 10 million copi in hard-cov and paperback . 
 ( box ) the peppermil , 2909 lakesid , santa clara , ( 408 ) 988-3282 and 10690 n. de anza blvd. , cupertino , ( 408 ) 996-7750 , look like a 50s vision of the futur : mirror ceil , black and chrome , neon strip light , hard surfac . 
 on the left were pro-labor forc alli with the develop , includ sever hard-hat construct worker . 
 ( check ) no. 4 arantxa sanchez vicario show sign of hope in win her first titl of the year saturday in washington , but befor that , she 'd never won a hard-court tournament . 
 the ice-cream fork would seem to contradict miss manner ' assert that ice cream should be eaten with a spoon , but -- fool you ! -- it actual is a spoon , with a veri round bowl , onli with fork-lik tine at the end for subdu brick hard ice cream . 
 on his own garag door he found that the open revers when it struck the hard block but crush a cardboard box -- a materi that one assum more close repres peopl . 
 scientist have known for year that larger bodi , such as the moon , have a soil-lik surfac , but object as small as gaspra were thought to have rock-hard surfac . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 they cost an averag $ 9 million -lrb- about half as much as hard dome -rrb- and let some sunlight in -- as much as 30 % with newer fabric . 
 possess no outer fortif , no hard shell of confid ; they had enough difficulti get from day to day , let alon have an aw crime thrust upon them . 
 is use for make button and other small , hard object of turneri . 
 the jisr hajar of faraya is an ellipt arch of hard stone , slight obliqu but with regular abut . 
 the san jose museum of art will showcas post-minimalist lynda beng , who made a name for herself 20 year ago with suppl sculpture-paint hybrid -- metal `` sparkl '' knot , cover in gold leaf , which defi the minimalist mandat that sculptur had to be hard , geometr and rigid . 
 piti the poor hard-cov . 
 some of canada 's wheat custom reli for mill on canada 's high-grad , high-protein , hard red spring wheat . 
 sinc the former white hous chief of staff publish his memoir monday in time magazin and in hard cover , astrolog have been exceed difficult to tune out , turn off or disregard . 
 ( box ) as the resin bead remov the miner , they slowli get satur with `` hard '' materi . 
 ( hbox ) ; some matzo ball are hard , some fall apart , but marci 's mom , aileen gugenheim , guarante this recip , which has been hand down from generat to generat . 
 ( box ) wait to cut asparagus fern until they ve turn complet brown , usual after the first hard frost . 
 the remaind would be so-cal hard good , which includ stereo , televis set and electron equip . 
 rememb , this is a curvi road with few hard shoulder . 
 the hulk , bald foreman whom the folk saw fight qawi is a differ fella from the hard-muscl young champ whose place in histori rest larg on two fight , one that he won and one he lost . 
 we student are learn how to take note while stand or sit on hard , cold tile . 
 the futon is good for you , i insist , becaus it 's good for the back when the bed is hard and firm . 
 a love whose flesh has been boil off , a clean , cold , hard , white , bone-lik love. '' 
 ( box ) the shell should be hard when pinch . 
 nor was it enough for slum-dwel in huaycan , outsid lima , where treatment is free , but patient must reclin on hard bench or dirti sheet and bring along their own toilet paper . 
 blister could be prevent from form by rub a work blister immedi with ani hard nonpoison substanc . 
 did 80 mile an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shack . 
 the hard shell of nut might make you think they are a good stabl foodstuff , but the high fat content of the meat make them suscept to rancid . 
 should there be a law prohibit hard floor ? 
 the spray kill germ and virus on hard surfac , such as toilet seat , wash basin , door handl and telephon , it manufactur say . 
 deck ; a new , comprehens book on deck build is `` deck , `` by tim snyder ( $ 26.95 hard cover , rodal press ) . 
 but latin american and west indian use banana when hard and green , when squishili soft and brown , and at everi stage between . 
 like amoeba , plasmodia can enter hard , resist rest state , call sclerotia , when condit are bad . 
 courier look as comfort on the hard court at the nation tenni center as he did on the clay at roland garro . 
 reader not onli smell the linse oil , hard soap and tallow candl of the priori but quick are caught up in the layer of friendship and animos that exist among the young novic , forbidden `` particular affect '' with their sister . 
 it current centerpiec is the star electr vibrat , a black-and-chrom devic about the size and shape of a mediev mace that come complet with carri case , a varieti of hard-rubb massag head and an instruct manual . 
 excav of the floor of the lock follow up the complet hard core drain in 15 ft section , the trench sheet be remov and a 2 ft thick mass concret slab of 7.4 : 1 total aggreg cement ratio be emplac to within 3 ft of each wall . 
 york also believ that double-wal , hard-sid cooler like littl igloo , thermo brand and such are a good bet becaus the two wall are an effici way to use air 's excel insul properti . 
 the palm was rough with hard callous , but it rest ever so light on my eye . 
 the unsettl debt market and propos feder reserv board rule on capit have put bank between a rock and hard place . 
 kris bower , the advertis director for oakley , a compani that make the wraparound sunglass , said oakley offer 100 percent uv protect and that they are made with polycarbon lens , a hard , plastic-lik materi . 
 the control energi is mark , and also the use of what yeat demand -- `` the intellectu surpris word which is also the correct word '' : `` warm fume , `` `` a hard , factori mouth , `` `` big-potato-bum man. '' 
 when the surfac is sand or gravel , the gold will settl through it over time until it come to some barrier that stop it movement , such as hard clay . 
 oak , one of the hardest tree in california , is valu for it long burn in the hearth . 
 and he acknowledg the compani 's inabl to refin it $ 1.4 billion debt from that deal `` put us between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 in the bay area , the soil is most hard clay , and the best way to loosen up this compact soil is to dig in huge amount of compost , redwood soil condition or other organ soil amend . 
 `` they re veri hard but can have a lot of crack and fractur , and sometim piec will break off. '' 
 robert joedick , an analyst for shearson lehman brother inc. , call the chemic bank agreement `` an import achiev '' for the pilot that `` put the compani 's board of director between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 jio said , look at the men dress in orang vest and white hard-hat , `` it kind of make you sad when you see that thing . . . but , progress . 
 by 1990 , his self-publish pamphlet on the masculin crisi had been compil and reissu in hard cover by a lead publish -- and the book , `` iron john , `` quick scale the new york time best-sel list . 
 and structural-packag design develop `` advanc microwav packag '' with metal foil that encourag crisp and `` guidanc system '' that leav ice cream rock hard while the salisburi steak sizzl . 
 conscious of the fact that your feet hurt , that the citi pavement are hard . 
 booz ask the judg for a stay that would have kept the babi in foster care pend the appeal , but she refus , say the child can not remain `` caught between a rock and a hard place. '' 
 earli , hard dome necessit round stadium for support -- an inconveni shape for both basebal and footbal . 
 toy between hard cover . 
 she told of a friend who came to her two day after a physic `` and ask if i 'd look at . . . 'a hard place ' `` on the side of her breast . 
 it can absorb stain from food and tobacco , and it can combin with calcium and other miner in saliva to form tartar , a rock-hard coat . 
 the latest version ( gv-300 , $ 1 , 400 ) , about a year old , is the size of a hard-cov book , and some fear it may one day replac book . 
 to those of us who have spent year observ these anim , the general rule is that they place a flat rock on their chest against which they bang hard shell mollusc such as clam . 
 the avon paperback , howev , has a differ subtitl from the one that appear on hard cover last april . 
 on monday and wednesday , multipl accid caus miles- long morn backup befor our hard-hat friend even went to work . 
 the loud music , bright color and hard , slick seat in a fast-food outlet , for exampl , are intend both to entertain and to trigger an eat-and-run respons . 
 all too often , road-wizen artist who endur year of second-bil status and final find late success emerg with a hard shell of self-right bitter . 
 note : drage are hard candi use to decor bake goods. -- -- from `` rose 's christma ; cooki '' by rose levi ; beranbaum ( morrow ) . 
 the bear and orangutan play with `` boomer ball , `` hard plastic sphere about the size of a volleybal fill with nut and raisin that rattl around insid and sometim fall out to be eager eaten . 
 a accord to mario solomon , a graduat student at georgetown , the term hoya deriv from the greek word for `` hard as a rock. '' 
 `` but the other brush , with their hard bristl and tini head , are onli good for clean the small , white part of your teeth. '' 
 if the pear are a hard varieti , you may need to pre-cook them in a littl water until they are soft . 
 a cushion can help allevi the discomfort experienc sit on a hard surfac . 
 he 's a kind of leo buscaglia of the hard court , embrac his sweati charg at everi opportun . 
 ( while they are warm , they will feel a bit soft , but when they cool they will becom crisp and hard. ) 
 barbara perri say she has , howev , thought of tri to deep-fri some -- a proposit that may strike devote as akin to hard-boil caviar . 
 it is made of thin , hard yellow ware with fine red grit . 
 unit with hard plastic side forc water to travel the length of the filter , insur longer contact with the filter . 
 the feder govern want to leas portion of the outer continent shelf in norton sound , includ 1 , 000 disput acr , for hard rock miner recoveri , with gold the primari target . 
 `` she did n't want a hard edg , she want someth soft and dreamy. '' 
 beat the towel on a hard surfac to break the husk loos from the kernel . 
 `` there 's no doubt that this fasb propos leav us between a rock and a hard place , '' say the benefit manag for a major manufactur compani . 
 on the left were pro-labor forc alli with the develop , includ sever hard-hat construct worker . 
 virtual anyth with a hard surfac will do to colon . 
 that encourag other sit-in , lead to the replac of the recept area 's comfort sofa and overstuf chair with hard wood bench . 
 `` they re caught between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 ( check ) if the weight of a hard-shel helmet strain your neck , pick a thin shell . 
 when hideji takemasa think about comput , he doe n't imagin hard plastic box squat on desk top . 
 goalkeep ; face mask -- it has evolv from the jason mask you see in horror movi to awir cage that attach to the helmet or a high-tech , hard plastic mask-helmet combin . 
 bumpi , hard-skin , irregular shape squash typifi american fall and winter harvest food at it best . 
 true noir believ also can purchas a `` new '' -lrb- first time publish in hard cover -rrb- novel by dashiel hammett , `` woman in the dark : a novel of danger romanc '' -lrb- knopf , 76 page , $ 15.95 -rrb- . 
 if necessari , trim it by use the straightedg and a fresh knife blade , or by rub it against fine-grit sandpap laid flat on a hard work surfac . 
 for instanc , i paint a plant walkway on a hard surfac to save water . 
 i do n't think i have a hard nose , `` he say , stroke the bridg of his nose , `` and i love nonsense. '' 
 someday you ll be walk through the forest in the dead of winter and you ll stub your boot on someth hard : a frog ! 
 now we were sleep on a bed that was so hard and so flat that i felt as if stake out for bird of prey in the desert . 
 just befor serv , crisp tortilla as abov but leav hard and flat . 
 c. edward acker , pan am 's chairman , remain caught between a rock and a hard place . 
 befor mr. hoffman enter the busi a decad ago , a hard-cov fiction best seller sold 150 ,000 copi . 
 replac lead and scribe for mark metal , glass and other hard materi are store in the tape rule . 
 if you re drive a hard-top car , stay with it . 
 harvest all the fruit befor the first hard freez . 
 never let the soil dri out , watch for whitefli and powderi mildew , feed generous with a 10 percent nitrogen fertil everi other week , prop the ripen pumpkin up on board to prevent rot the bottom and harvest them when the rind start get hard . 
 these cooki start out hard and soften as they matur . 
 becker match lendl 's nine ace , but won this match with his more dynam play at the net , frolick on the hard court as if it were wimbledon 's grass . 
 it 's all done with bean curd -- hard and soft , fri and steam and broil and who know what . 
 you just have to work a littl harder to keep the relationship go . '' 
 they found that a way to get a pretti tomato to market was to pick hard , unrip one and gas them red . 
 the control energi is mark , and also the use of what yeat demand -- `` the intellectu surpris word which is also the correct word '' : `` warm fume , `` `` a hard , factori mouth , `` `` big-potato-bum man. '' 
 mclaughlin recommend dure the class that biker ride down a steep , hard-pack dirt hill do most of the brake with the back brake and use the front brake spare . 
 the hyper pad is a hard-surfac mousepad that contain the same heat-sensit liquid crystal . 
 stich , stretch to five set in the third round by malivai washington , look so comfort on wimbledon 's grass but has n't adjust to the medium-fast hard court at the nation tenni center . 
 if someon is move from a larger apart to a smaller one , mr. thometz may also weed out hard-cov classic that are readili avail in paperback . 
 instead , tie a cushion on a hard headboard for comfort sit in bed. '' 
 `` no way i 'm go to miss that , even kick a ball that feel like a brick on a rock-hard field against the wind. '' 
 there is no question but that the process of wash fabric involv a number of phenomena which are relat togeth in an extrem complic way and that these phenomena and their interrel are not well understood at the present , this section attempt to present briefli an up-to-d pictur of the physic chemistri of wash either fabric or hard surfac . 
 so-cal veget ivori is the hard endosperm of the egg-siz seed . 
 mr. condello onc said the worst thing about the state capitol was it hard floor , the tile , marbl corridor and stone stair that he trampl over each work day for a decad . 
 remov the hard outer shell of the acorn with a nut cracker . 
 a harder skin will allow the fruit to store better . 
 sinc the 1950s , it has cost twice the nation averag to build a mile of highway through this hard-scrabbl state . 
 one exampl : the hard stick of the timpanist virtual turn the open minut into a kettle-drum concerto . 
 "she has a lot of inform in her head about the acquir compani and there may be inform there that may be use to supermarket general in their defense.i think she walk a veri thin line." 
 one reason optima could reshap the credit-card busi is that american express is the first high-profil card issuer with nation market muscl to introduc a low-rat card.beyond that, it foray into revolv credit -- in which the card holder must make onli a minim payment each month -- further blur the once-well-defin line between bank and other financial-servic companies. 
 the pentagon has strenuous resist move to upgrad the status of the unit that deal with "low intens conflict."memb of the joint chief argu that congress was tri to creat a "fifth service" that would cut across tradit line of militari authority. 
 a japanes embassi spokesman in washington said: "the supercomput issu is a matter between two governments.thi (the fujitsu proposal) is a matter between two companies, and a line should be drawn between the two." 
 add ray ablondi, a market research director at ford motor co.: "we don't recogn someth call a middl class.w work across demographic, psycho-graph and life-styl lines. 
 in the past, peopl shop decis were restrict part by their limit familiar with what was available.but mass communic has sinc spread tast and want across social and econom lines. 
 but she refus to buy import new zealand strawberri at $5 or $6 a box."that where i draw the line," she says. 
 today, it is more vital than ever.in 1983, the act was entrench in the new constitution, which establish a tricamer parliament along racial lines, with separ chamber for whites, color and asian but none for blacks. 
 but otherwise, he says, "i'm not sure we should regulate" mani off-exchang transactions.exchang say the line should be firm. 
 in some regards, he was almost a cliche: an ambiti young man who rose too far too fast and wound up in the worst sort of trouble.h say he cross the line into crimin without even realiz it. 
 but in france, which has long consid televis a public servic and a cultur force, discov that it also a busi has come as a jolt.and although mani busi execut laud the recent rehabilit of free enterpris and profit, mani frenchmen clear draw the line at television. 
 guthri birkhead, dean of syracus univers maxwel school of citizenship and public affairs, note that in recent years, busi have "raided" his school and recruit around 10% of each graduat class."but it not that disturbing," he says, "becaus the line between the public and privat sector is blurring. 
 we think you can be serv the public good at the moodi or the goldman sachs too."a blurri line doesn't help the schools, which from the begin have struggl to separ themselv from the more establish law school and busi schools. 
 but analyst say mani bank might be forc to deal with such reduct in equiti by sell asset and issu stock to buttress their sharehold equity.mr. levi think a sharper line will be drawn in the futur between well-capit bank that can "gracefully" buttress reserv and those "who will be realli hurt." 
 on balance, say mr. schoenwald, "i feel that it a good compani worth holding."th difficulti of draw a line can be seen in other funds. 
 "but currenc exchang rate can't be neglected, and now they have to be given new emphasis."mr. poehl is walk a fine line. 
 bernarda alba is a single-mind matriarch who embodi the combin author of the church, the famili and society.sh is tyrann enough without underscor her cruelty, which is what ms. jackson does, bark out command in a hard-edged, loud voic that carri the play over the line from tragedi to melodrama. 
 "are we go to have peopl drink crisco?" ask joseph kozloff, an analyst for painewebb inc.fat substitutes, meanwhile, further blur the line between food and medicine, ad to a develop that research call "medic foods." 
 an industri safeti committe was formed, and contract of actor and director have been chang to includ safeti provisions."th incid will serv to temper the zeal of film maker (when they) walk that fine line between the art of illus and creat reality," say terri young, director of risk manag at mgm/ua entertain co. 
 onli two thing have to "go wrong at the same time and there are go to be problems" at a bank, he added.som banker conced a compromis on capit adequaci requir will have to be work out as secur regul decid where to draw the line between bank and secur businesses. 
 on one end is the monday night poker game; on the other end is the larg public servic group.w don't know where the suprem court will draw the line." 
 those who are oppos to rape are induc to becom natur hostil toward sex, and those who like sex are inclin to becom a bit more kind dispos toward rape.th entir case against coerciv sex rest on deni ms. dworkin equation, and insist on the line of demarc between voluntari and involuntari intercourse. 
 the feder reserv board decis to give three major bank hold compani limit author to deal in secur through subsidiari further blur the legal line separ commerci and invest banking. 
 the fed decis to give three big bank limit author to deal in secur through subsidiari further blur the legal line between commerci and invest banking. 
 "the firm has not given us formal notice, but we have it on suffici reliabl sourc that they are do this," said jay biggins, execut director of the citi offic for econom development.mr. biggin said the citi went as far as it could to inspir penney to stay but added, "the citi draw a line beyond which it can't go, in order to remain fair to other companies." 
 cboe and philadelphia exchang offici couldn't be reached.leo melamed, special counsel to the chicago mercantil exchange, which is expect to reap increas stock-index and foreign currenc futur busi from the japanese, said, "it appear they'r draw the line between retail and institut business." 
 an announc is expect today.th new power for banker trust new york corp., citicorp and j.p. morgan & co. further blur the legal line separ commerci and invest banking. 
 the sec reviv activ in the bank realm doesn't sit well with the american banker association, either.in light of the blur line between the bank and secur industries, the sec requir all commerci bank that solicit brokerag busi to regist as broker-dealers. 
 befor then, he says, he would smoke in front of his boss, a former smoker, in "real social" situations.but he drew the line when it came to work or travel. 
 thus, some famili are probabl buy take-out food from groceri store -- such as barbecu chicken -- but aren't classifi it as such.th line between groceri and take-out food may have becom blurred. 
 in a letter to worker befor a schedul vote in februari on join the union, the presid of bell atlant bell atlanticom said: "we do not want this union in our company!th union can caus plenti of troubl . . . ." a month later, the union president, morton bahr, told bell atlant chairman, thoma e. bolger, "the manag activ has cross the line of decency, and that is be charitable." 
 mr. allen, who is black, is consid a conservative.design as an independent, fact-find agency, the commiss has been sharpli divid along ideolog line in recent years. 
 "for the legal profession, the breakup of at&t has been like receiv an unsolicit annuity," say kenneth robinson, a commerc depart telecommun official.say david sather, counsel for u s west inc., a region phone company: "i don't mind put their (lawyers') kid through school, but i draw the line at their grandchildren." 
 republican donald haider also ran.mr. washington won the democrat parti primari in februari in a vote that was divid larg along racial line and, in the general election, face three white opponents. 
 if insid peopl are not competitive, how can your organ be competit in the marketplace?consult who work across industri line will confirm that the fundament in everi industri are almost identical. 
 although mr. jefferi wasn't an underwrit of the fireman fund issue, his case highlight an area that affect a wide rang of larg and small investors.it is an area where the line between legal and illeg is unusu thin. 
 mani diploma-mil custom know exact what they are getting, but dian ravitch, a professor of histori and educ at teacher colleg at columbia university, believ that other may not.a the number of night school and correspond class has risen, she says, the line between real and bogus school has becom "blurrier." 
 amid all her parent responsibilities, she couldn't fit in 40 hour of work a week."i couldn't draw a definit line -- i'd drop everyth for my children," recal mrs. schuldt, who has return to work at the factory, part-time. 
 after sign a multibillion-dollar borrowing, mexican financ minist gustavo petricioli has to tread a care line between the angri rhetor of disgruntl major debtor like brazil and the calm word his foreign lender now expect from mexico. 
 and, of course, that true.in a marxist societi gear up for war, there are no clear line separ officials, soldier and civilians. 
 although they are impress energetic, one somehow feel that their painter virtuos run away with them a bit.perhap this is becaus the way they tri to bridg the line between abstract and figur doesn't seem to be quit resolved. 
 "on the whole, i would as soon not have done it."som draw the line at far more mundan requests. 
 an agent call "jack" had forc a palestinian to call himself a poodle, crawl on all four and bark, an investig found, while the other agent had slap an arrest arab journalist and bound his hand to a pipe "a number of times," though never for more than an hour.becaus the shin bet secreci extend even to it code of behavior and disciplinari record, it is unclear where the agenc draw the line. 
 u.s. diplomat have back off from the controversy, and that disappoint u.s. farmers."if we could get the japanes to cross that white line," say j. stephen gabbert, execut vice presid of the rice miller association, "it might restructur the polit system and break a psycholog barrier to import goods." 
 "we do promot positivism," mr. decherd said in a speech last year.th polici sometim mean the news walk a fine line on objectivity. 
 it doe depriv the awsj of 4,600 copi worth of sale and advertising, as it is intend to do.th editori state that the awsj "has alreadi publish a seri of letter from officials," but "self-respect editor must somewher draw a line." 
 "for all the talk about gray areas, my client can sens what all right and what isn't," he says."they don't call me and say: where the line, so i can stay just bare on the safe side of it.'" 
 but the pacman defense, to be effective, need some market momentum to get bendix into play, push up it stock price so it would realiz the market was take the martin marietta attack seriously.so just befor martin marietta bid was unveiled, mr. siegel call mr. boeski and leak the top secret plan, fulli awar that he had just cross the line of illegality. 
 the lawyer say they hold out hope of treatment and legal redress to thousand of worker whose asbesto exposur has long been ignor by employers, govern agenc and unions.but as the attorney cross the line between law and medicine, their tactic are generat controversi as well as lawsuits. 
 even treasuri secretari jame baker has admit public that item such as the medicar propos come under the rubric of tax increases.pressed, mr. miller conced that the line between tax and user charg is a bit fuzzy. 
 the paper has alreadi publish a seri of letter from officials, but in the end editor bear some respons for the accuraci and fair of even letter to the editor.singapor offici seem to be use their new press law to claim unlimit access for whatev they choos to allege, and self-respect editor must somewher draw a line. 
 but it clear that tension between washington and citicorp are grow rapidly."ther a fine line between be tough and be a spoiler," one u.s. offici said. 
 presid reagan biographer, edmund morris, may be about to cross the line between write histori and make it. 
 meanwhile, corpor are pare legal budget and forc outsid law firm to bid competit for their business.law firm walk a fine line in devis market that bring in new busi without offend conserv partner or old-lin client who valu discretion. 
 one solut be consid is a big across-the-board reduct in the servic that the health-insur fund pay for.oth divid along polit lines. 
 by race and pound the first movement of the sonata no. 32 (mark maestoso-allegro con brio ed appassionato) he produc not heroism, but a tantrum.mr. barenboim perform also rais the question: when doe true interpret cross the line into mere caprice? 
 "how far can the administr reach when it observ conduct troublesom to everyone, but which did not interfer with the educ process?wher do you draw the line?" 
 magazin are in for more rivalri from mail-ord catalog as the line between them blurs. 
 bent on return it struggl steel unit to profitability, usx demand steep wage and benefit cut and, more important, the right to assign job and reorgan work crew without union interfer -- the same issu that prompt an industrywid strike in 1959.long embitt by the compani diversif into oil, the union drew a line against further sacrifice. 
 he was such a key figur at the bank," say david poutney, a bank analyst at barclay de zoet wedd, a secur unit of barclay bank plc.mr. seelig, refer to as "roger the art dodger" by rival dure his 15 year at morgan grenfell, "perfect straddl the fine line between be faintheart and cut too mani corners," say a corpor financ director at a rival merchant bank. 
 the line between tacki and urban is call broadway here, and it run right through the middl of town. 
 "we have made everi effort possibl to improv distribution."yet the matsushita-g impass indic that some japanes manufactur may now have decid to draw the line. 
 he was not fulli in control until october, when he flew back from an imf meet in belgrad to institut tight money.august 1979 stand as a bright line separ the era of inflat from the era of disinflation. 
 "everi year we go to the toy fair, and we come back saying, it not get ani better.'"for example, although hasbro, the biggest toy maker, also market board game and other "gender-neutral" items, it organ it biggest seller strict along sex-rol lines. 
 kid age four to nine are "fashion-conscious" as well as gender-conscious, she says.among the except to the gender line are construct product like lego system inc. lego or habermaa t.c. timber, which has a packag show a girl in a frilli dress survey a toy construct site. 
 "we don't mind rais fee if there is valu added, but i don't see it in the new audit proposals."mr. sullivan recogn that the board "must tread a fine line between the urg of congress and the concern of business." 
 "to even comment on this is riski for a presidenti candidate," say david keene, an advis to mr. dole."you have to walk a fine line. 
 it was be distribut by the conserv caucus, which for sever year has been campaign to forc chevron to pull out of it partnership with sociedad nacion de combustivei de angola (sonangol), a state oil compani under the control of angola marxist mpla government.th campaign has cut across ideolog and polit lines. 
 it great is that it laid the foundat for a system in which futur generat could carri out their own reform and solv their own problems.today, watch south korea struggl to establish the most minim republican institut -- or watch franc limp along with two men in charg becaus nobodi ever drew the line between the execut and legisl branch -- we can onli marvel at our forefath accomplishments. 
 state attempt to shield their corpor from hostil bid have "present serious impedi to the free and effici operation" of the stock markets, mr. ruder said."draw the line between appropri state regul of intern corpor affair and improp state regul of nation tender offer is not easy," he added, "but the task is unavoidable." 
 general it tell more about the speaker than about the topic under discussion.yet to draw the line, as mr. carter does, between speech accept to men as a class as against women as a class convey a sexist attitud more objectionable, perhaps, than be foulmouthed. 
 but humanitarian assistance, tradit the domain of civilians, is gear more toward provid food, cloth or medic servic to individuals.in vietnam, the line between the militari and civilian agenc becam blurred, with intellig operators, for example, often use posit in the agenc for intern development, or aid, as "cover." 
 but the most effect check on desktop comput gurus, expert say, is a computer-liter manager.such boss can recogn the often murki distinct between product and play on a computer, and can draw the line clear so their worker won't get led astray. 
 bare one in 11 would absolut refuse.th students, though, do draw the line. 
 april mark the first month when overal industri asset declin sinc decemb 1983.bb&k mr. biehl conced that the line divid diversa fund client and the newslett subscrib is alreadi fuzzy. 
 but robert giordano, an economist at goldman, sach & co., express concern that polit consider might lead mr. greenspan, a republican, to toler a slight pickup in inflat for the sake of better econom growth."volck drew a line at 4% inflation," mr. giordano asserted. 
 nato made a virtu out of a necessity.th sudden outbreak of the six-day war in the near east rais the stake by remind the world of the thin line between peac and war. 
 ms. thernstrom question the wisdom of such results: "are minor sometim better off with fewer seat but more diffus influenc -- a smaller number of black in office, but a greater number of repres who owe their elect to black constituents?"th reshap of a substanti number of polit district along racial line has gone virtual unnot by congress and the media. 
 "the sandinista interpret this as an unwilling of the soviet to assume" respons to protect the regime, he says.indeed, the soviet have care avoid cross other line drawn by the u.s. administration. 
 in czechoslovakia, more than in ani other countri of the soviet sphere, the leadership has had a difficult time.it is struggl to walk a credibl line between the retrench it was brought in to enforc two decad ago and mr. gorbachev drive to reviv social with dose of the free market and freedom of thought. 
 at the hear yesterday, judg kennedi said, "it seem to me that most americans, most lawyers, most judg believ liberti includ protect of a valu we know as privacy.""ther is a zone of liberty," he added, ". . . where a line is drawn where the individu can tell the government, beyond this line, you may not go.'th great question is where to draw that line." 
 judg anthoni kennedi conclud his testimoni for his suprem court nomination, walk a fine line between liber and conserv senat concern about where his legal view fit on the polit spectrum. 
 and, at a time of shrink medic income, the exploit of medic fashion offer a rich opportun for financi gain.th line are drawn. 
 but the new democrat parti itself place second in a gallup poll, be favor by 34% of decid voters, compar with 35% for the liber and 29% for the conservatives.so mr. broadbent walk a fine line. 
 mr. roh nevertheless schedul his seoul ralli to coincid with the anniversary.hi advis say his speech will draw the clearest line yet between himself and the high unpopular presid chun. 
 "the fed is caught between deflationari signal and inflationari signal coexist at the same time.they'v got to walk a veri fine line." 
 the new rules, which were put into effect two week ago without ani public announcement, are suppos to clarifi what that licens allows.invest advis said the regul will forc them to continu tread a fine line between offer advic and actual sell securities. 
 and when it is ready, we will deploy it."if all of this seem like a delic line to walk, well, appar sometim even the presid slips. 
 "with congress not have done anyth meaning on the budget deficit, the process of control the economi fall on the shoulder of the fed," mr. kahan said."th fed is go to have to walk a thin line between be too tight and caus us to fall direct into recession, and be over stimul and therefor lead to an inflationari bout." 
 he appeal to the tax court.now special judg dinan has drawn a line that may surpris some tax experts: hendrickson was inexperienc and own minor share in onli three wells, so he was unabl to play an activ role in manag and oper or to influenc oper decisions. 
 such foggi rhetor reflect a 30-year-long weaken of the democrat and republican parties.they have fewer and fewer strong adher divid by clear line of tradit left-right ideology. 
 and carrier may have to mention that return portion of most non-refund ticket can't be use when travel miss depart flights."we'r essenti draw a specif line and saying, step across it and we'll sue you,'" say one task-forc member. 
 back home, he has plenti of his own problems, from a sur bureaucraci to sikh terrorist to restless gurkha to troubl border with pakistan and china.h walk a fine line in deal with the separatist movement in india own tamil state. 
 the move would have been organ by manag and carri out by worker with job classif allow them to haul equipment.but now, the skilled-trad worker were not onli organ the move but also were will to cross job line and help. 
 they debat ethic in the easy, wisecrack languag of daniel petri jr. deft script while they drive to a cajun restaur in remi convertible.h get her drunk, and they eat and danc and continu wrangl about where to put the fine line between perk and graft. 
 and the ramif will go far beyond intern economics.ther is a fine line between trade and polit in the persian gulf nations. 
 the best way to experi the "sculptur project" is with a good pair of walk shoes, plenti of time, and a copi of the moder priced, bilingu guid sold by the westphalian landesmuseum (conveni situat just across from the cathedral, where the treasur hunt starts).in munster, too, the line between art and non-art is often less than clear. 
 the word "democratic" and "liberal" have becom synonym -- the health of liber is now measur by the success of the democrat parti in the latest presidenti election.th line between polici analyst and polit tactician has becom similar blurred. 
 the fed found father had just that kind of structur in mind almost 75 year ago.th line are blurring; the prioriti changing. 
 "the flood" skill combin hypermodern graphic and comput projections, live actor and 3-d animation.yet all of the "alive" show tread the fine line between experiment and excess. 
 note of white hous meet indic presid reagan share adm. poindext penchant for turn words.th naval offic testifi that even col. north had difficulti "draw the fine line that the presid was drawing" in defend a plan that encompass sell weapon to a nation that had support terrorist hold american hostag in lebanon. 
 but it wasn't clear whether this would forc a tighten of controls.th court stop short of say where the agenc should draw the line on safety. 
 for this reason, mr. smith make sure the paper-product manag and worker don't feel inferior to their counterpart at the more glamor market divisions."it a fine, fine line you'v got to walk," say mr. smith, a down-to-earth execut who tour plant in blue jean and run shoes. 
 obviously, the lack of turnov in hous seat benefit incumb of both parties.but just as obviously, it entrench the ideolog balanc that prevail when the line were drawn and the incumbent-protect legisl was passed. 
 his approach was at time veri broad -- say there was onli a "semantic" differ between militari and non-leth "humanitarian" aid for the contra -- and at time veri narrow -- argu a distinct between "covert actions" and clandestin "special activities."in a tell exchange, adm. poindext acknowledg that even col. north had difficulti "draw the fine line that the presid was drawing" in defend the earli iran initi and the plan to sell weapon to a nation that support terrorists. 
 even some state regul say the rule can go too far."it a fine line between consum protect and overprotection," say ann mari brady, wisconsin deputi secur commissioner. 
 govern and privat analyst alik don't think the iranian are like to mount a frontal attack, becaus that would invit large-scal retaliation."they'l have to draw a line between not want to spread the war and do something," say ruhollah ramazani, an iranian-born scholar at the univers of virginia. 
 still, sex and violenc outsel economics.takao saito, who draw the 18-year-old "golgo 13" series, notic a change: "until recently, there was a line between manga that had sex and those that didn't.that line has been blurred." 
 these days, beij emphas the cooper in an effort to woo taiwan, to which the kuomintang fled after be defeat by the communists.chines leaders, meanwhile, have sought to draw the line on harsh anti-japanes rhetoric. 
 ani concentr of power is oppressive; the concentr of econom power is frightening.let us hope that congress will have the gut or the wisdom to draw a line against the unbridl econom concentr that is impli in the treasuri no-longer-secret plan. 
 "there are all kind of guidelin this violates," say retir col. john miller, editor of the naval institut proceed magazine."th line was cross sometim before. 
 so far, his energi and aggress stanc have surpris critic and earn favor review at home.virginia voter are much on sen. tribl mind; up for reelect next year, he is walk a line between loyalti to the presid and the new independ he need to survive. 
 but the account profess should still be care of where it management-consult busi is headed.when it move over the line of give advic to make the actual busi deal and direct busi strategi for audit clients, it may encount the ire of congression watchdogs. 
 the reappoint of the 57-year-old bundesbank chief was wide expected, despit some critic of his expans monetari polici at home.th bundesbank has been walk a narrow line between intern demand for more west german econom growth and domest fear of rekindl inflation. 
 justic william brennan, join by justic thurgood marshall, sandra o'connor and harri blackmun, said the question of whether religi group could hire onli member of their own faith remain open when church-run, for-profit busi are involved.they warn that justic white decis didn't draw a sharp enough line between nonprofit and for-profit activities. 
 perhap the most blatant sign that the insurg has becom the opiat of the clergi is that on the region cease-fir committe dure peac talk earlier this year five of the 20 nation democrat front slot were fill by priests.for their part the marxist have work hard to fudg the line between out-and-out communist and well-intent democrat social activist in unit front fashion a la nicaragua, anoth poor cathol countri that threw off a corrupt dictatorship. 
 the suprem court left intact a feder appeal court rule that banker trust co. may sell commerci paper for it clients.th high court refus to hear an appeal by the secur industri associ is a boost for the feder reserv board polici of allow the legal line between commerci bank and secur to blur. 
 politician in the nation third-largest citi began maneuv within hour after mr. washington die from a heart attack wednesday.neighborhood factions, often split along racial lines, are jockey behind the scenes, and some are call for a special election. 
 franc hodgson burnett left england as a child in the 1850s, and start write sentiment tale about her homeland while live in a kentucki log cabin -- which may account for their ideal sweetness.unfortunately, despit it excel cast, this hallmark hall of fame present cross the fine line that divid the sweet from the saccharine. 
 the fed can push down market interest rate through it so-cal open market operations, by buy secur from bank and thus ad money to the bank system.at the moment, the central bank seem to be walk a narrow line, use "open market" oper to keep rate down, but hold the discount rate stabl in an attempt to keep the exchang market calm. 
 cite numer precedents, pennzoil say texaco must prove that pennzoil intend to defraud public sharehold through it early-purchas arrang with the museum -- proof, it says, that doesn't exist.cit equal numer precedents, texaco and the sec say 10b-13 is a "bright line" rule with no room for interpret -- that by arrang to purchas share privat with it tender offer outstand pennzoil walk over the line of legality. 
 he got the job.now mr. murphi tread a thin line between the hacker he rever and the corpor client he reviles.th line is so thin that critic doubt that his reform is real. 
 no one can serious claim to have been delud about the polit of feder spend the past seven years.in draw the line on taxes, the presid made clear his intent to stop the great game of the 1960s and 1970s of turn over to the govern ever more of the privat economi resources. 
 becaus of the ambiguity, he say if broker are ask directly, "the safer cours . . . is to disclose.i wish we could give more specif advic to our member as to where the line should be drawn. 
 rep. john murtha (d., pa.), invok the bless of energi and commerc committe chairman john dingel (d., mich.), sought to extend this year deadlin until 1989, but back down after be assur of an opportun to offer the same amend on the floor."ther is a fine line between fix the clean air act and gut the act," said rep. edward boland (d., mass.), whose subcommitte overse the environment protect agenc and who expect the issu to return befor the house. 
 various vampir and zombi accost my wife and me.th park draw the line at spook in restroom as well as use devil worship and "excess act of violence" as themes, mr. zanvill says. 
 vast rich can result from schmooz on the telephone, over lunch, at the club, over drinks, or, as in levin case, dure discreet walks.when competit is intens and time is everything, the line between legitim share of gossip and illeg share of insid inform can blur. 
 desk trader said sell by sever fund group contribut to the market decline.mani fund manag -- includ those with high cash reserv -- are walk a thin line. 
 "we have these twin fear that inflat is go out of control or that we are head into recession," mr. jordan says.to allay those fears, mr. greenspan must walk a veri narrow line, he adds. 
 no doubt there are those with patholog cope mechan result in exercis abuse.however, there often is a fine line between the abus and those individu strive to enhanc the qualiti of their live through exercise. 
 "whi should guin sharehold finish up carri the costs, when it the distil sharehold who will benefit" from the acquisition?mr. seelig "perfect straddl the fine line between be faintheart and cut too mani corners," a corporate-fin director at a rival merchant bank said earlier this year. 
 we are made anxious by the juxtaposit of substanc with froth -- and for a good reason.publ tv is one of those twilight zone in which the line between "high" and "low" cultur are at their blurriest. 
 one woman engin was ask to open her case for inspection; it turn up onli birth-control pill and other person medications, accord to the burlington spokesman.crit say there a fine line between the corpor right to a drug-fre workplac and the employe right to privaci -- and dignity. 
 thompson claim it was all tax-fre as damag for person injury.now judg scott has drawn the line: the back-pay award is taxabl as wage "owing" to thompson that her employ "withheld" in a breach of contract. 
 how do we, in a free society, defin a govern that has cross the line between the permiss and the impermissible? 
 he said some burger king peopl were transfer to other positions, while some employe who weren't involv in the account were let go.on employe describ the mood in new york as "demoralized," and said the situat was exacerb becaus the layoff "cut across depart lines." 
 let virtu be it own reward."h draw the line, however, at altruism aim at the welfar of subhuman species: "the human heart is distend until it is as big as all outdoors." 
 and ms. gordon, the miami stockbroker, found a doctor who would prescrib anti-inflammatori drug to keep down the pain in her ankl and knee so noth would stop her exercis routine.som doctor and sport profession maintain that the line between healthi and obsess exercis is too fine to separ addict from averag exercisers. 
 he prefer not to think about where the good are headed; "i'm in the sale business," he says, "not delivery."loc u.s. custom offici tri to walk a fine line between cooper with the mexican counterpart and jeopard the right of the smugglers. 
 "we haven't figur out yet how to handicap the games, or how to handl the situation," say john fitzgerald, presid of the hilton hotel-casino."if some peopl cross the line and make a particular team look strong . . . that'll make a big difference." 
 it hasn't.ther a real delic line there, and it hard for peopl to understand how we do it." 
 that the teach occup need high profession standard is indisput -- and the board creat for that purpos should get on with the task.for it part, congress should think twice befor eras yet anoth line of demarc between public and private. 
 it simpli that the compani believ reader loyalti is dwindl as the other magazin make themselv too hospit to advertisers."you draw a line, and the seven sister will cross it," mr. selbert contends. 
 that point out a peculiar in black america.unlik most americans, black do not yet vote along class lines. 
 edward regan, the republican comptroller, said "it normal that the legislatur add {to spending}.it up to the execut to draw the line. 
 "this assur a hors race," said one person familiar with the committe thinking.but the forstmann-l group must walk a fine line with the directors. 
 mr. bush, the scion of an upperclass eastern family, chose the more polish navy.judg from mr. hyne descriptions, those are the class line along which that choic usual was made: "of my flight school friends, it was certain true that the well-br one tend to take navi commissions; and those like myself who felt provincial, or common, or underbred, chose the marin corps, where those qualiti wouldn't show." 
 this is the real scandal of racial politics, circa 1988.our own view is that the polit of race has becom too polar along party, and philosophical, lines. 
 we should enlarg the franchise, not chang it."mr. jackson call the wall street journal to complain about a front-pag stori last week that quot a number of moder or conserv democrat charg mr. jackson with threaten to split the parti along racial and class lines, especi if michael dukaki lose the elect to georg bush next tuesday. 
 "honoraria can onli be accept under the fiction that it payment for servic rendered," say stanley brand, former counsel to the hous of representatives.when use as a lobbi tool, he says, "a prosecutor may decid that it gone over the line from a payment to a gift or gratuiti or bribe." 
 at a news confer in boston, mr. syron gave few clue to his think on monetari policy, but he said the fed role is "made much more complicated" by the budget and trade deficits.th fed "has had to walk a very, veri fine line for some time," he said."on natur worri about how long you can go on walk a fine line." 
 the sheer mass of the black major -- 26 million, to 5 million white -- has trampl color barrier in the larger cities.urban has obscur tribal lines. 
 at various moment alla might recal edith piaf, tina turner or vicki carr sing "it must be him" while soft crying.alla belong to an intern tradit of emot nake chanteus who walk the line between sophist and schmaltz while act each song as if it were a playlet. 
 a few year ago, the idea that there might be anyth unconstitut about punit damag occupi scarc ani space in law review articles.but now the u.s. suprem court is be pepper with appeal urg the nine justic to draw the line on such damages. 
 "they want us to go along with them on the bush effort, in a public way.you admir peopl zeal, but you have to draw the line," say sister joy kronenberger, c.d.p., who oper an activ pro-lif education, poster and prayer program for the diocese. 
 pc magazin is one of about a half-dozen comput public that offer such electron companions, and more are on the way.thes servic are blur the line between print and electron publishing. 
 it proper involv a varieti of messag carrier -- includ the voic of america, worldnet televis and skilled, language-qualifi foreign-servic offic among other -- to reach import and divers audienc overseas.thes audienc themselv have interest that defi easi categor along inform or cultur lines. 
 the failur of judith richard hope to win confirm to the prestigi appeal court here mean the reagan administr has come up short in it effort to complet transform what mani lawyer and legal scholar consid the second most import court next to the u.s. suprem court.th u.s. court of appeal for the district of columbia circuit is split along partisan lines, with reagan nomine enjoy a slim, 6-5 majority. 
 consum and small-busi bank is overseen by mr. middlemas, the president, while big corpor custom are overseen by jame w. thompson, chairman of the southeast bank.th southeast bank also focus ncnb on customer-group lines, rather than accord to geography. 
 although it seem evid that sen. bentsen gave the far more polish perform last night, republican were hope that expect were so low for sen. quayl -- who has been constant critic and even ridicul sinc his select -- that mere stay on his feet for 90 minut and not make ani embarrass slip-up will remov him as a liabil for the gop ticket.th post-deb analysi fell along predict partisan lines, with each side say that it man did better. 
 he might have point out that multicultur grant tend to go to second-gener australian tri to rediscov their root rather than to newli arriv immigrants.or he might have point out that ani discrimin along racial line is anti-western, exact the sort of thing most immigr have come to australia to escape. 
 but he didn't.so today in australia there are some peopl argu the right thing for the wrong reason and other argu the wrong thing for the right reasons, cut across all polit lines. 
 certilman haft balin buckley kremer & hyman, a midsiz new york law firm, is split along geograph and practic lines, effect oct. 1. 
 what bother polic about such actions, say jerald vaughn, execut director of the intern associ of chief of police, is that they repres "a breakdown of the rule of law."h maintains, "it onli a matter of time befor these group step over the line. " they may begin roust other they dislik -- peopl "who are not the right skin color or the right religi persuasion," he says. 
 syria express support for a rival govern declar friday by it moslem alli after gemayel six-year term expired.th disput threaten to formal partit lebanon along sectarian line and rekindl the 13-year civil war. 
 as we develop more sophist and expens medications, azt will be rememb as a bargain.wher do we draw the line? 
 and even under the best of circumstances, u.s. offici say, it is unlik that all nine american hostag will be liberated.th reagan administr is tri to walk a fine line between make concess to terrorist and miss what some offici think is the most promis opportun yet to secur the hostag freedom. 
 a soar dollar would wipe out the competit edg of u.s. manufacturers, and probabl spark a recession.eaton may be walk a danger line by put so much faith in the lower dollar. 
 "we have decid that our origin disposit was not an appropri one," the court said.th influenti court has been close divid along partisan and ideolog lines. 
 "ideolog p.r." in washington (as publicist melinda patrician put it) is be handl by fenton communic inc., which arrang screen for civil-right group and communiti leaders, squeez mr. costa-gavra in with it effort as a regist foreign agent for the govern of angola. (the danni ortega and mauric bishop p.r. account have gone.)a press releas intones: "there is a fine line between fact and fiction. 
 you need truck to go everywhere," mr. mcmillin said.whil he was bullish on sara lee strategy, mr. mcmillin said integr food-servic compani -- which typic are entrepreneuri busi organ along region line -- often is a long and difficult process. 
 unless the case is settl out of court, it may yet establish a preced that help defin the differ between busi and pleasure.say stanley chesley, the cincinnati attorney repres mrs. goldstein: "it a fine line distinction, and ultim a juri will decide." 
 that began a polit fiasco that kill the industri chanc for a 1988 recovery.in what a congression aid call "the north-south war," the soybean associ split along region lines. 
 the committe also back reynold research that found "a substanti reduct in the irrit properties" of tobacco smoke in the air.but the rjr nabisco inc. unit continu to walk a narrow line between publish it research and promot it product as a safer cigarette. 
 the product is more expens to make than convent cigarett -- and that requir a higher price tag, which also mean go after a more affluent consumer.beyond that, the compani must walk a fine line in pitch the cigarett as "cleaner" without repres that it is healthier. 
 should it realli be the top defens prioriti of a philippin presid to dicker over more dollar from american allies?or is it perhap more import to draw a clear line against the soviet union increas militari presenc in the pacific? 
 but for 11 years, presid zia forestal polit liberalizations.a a result, social and polit pressur are start to pull pakistan apart, along ethnic lines. 
 if statist were collected, manhattan island would be terrifi by an astronom trade deficit.in anoth sens it is an artifact of econom fashion: a reflect of where economist current choos to draw line in a great circl of transactions: onc everyth -- goods, services, bond and so on -- is included, the account must balance; for everi buyer there has to be a seller. 
 some smoke foe claim it seek "endorsements."in ani event, reynold may be walk a fine line between get out the fact and get ensnar in regulatori problems. 
  "but we are will to stand on our scienc in term of what we have done to reduc various product of burn tobacco. is that a narrow line?it a veri narrow but import line." 
 in new zealand there are two groups, maori and pakeha, who believ they have legitim claim to resources.giv to one group mean take from the other, and the take in this case is inevit go to be along racial lines. 
 in fact, the feel often is like a box match, with first one contend and then the other strike a blow for his or her life style or point of view while the crowd applauds.in play of this kind the playwright often walk a thin line between a televis sitcom and real drama. 
 becaus of a paper shortage, izvestia is usual just six page and sever of those are for offici communiques.mostly, though, it is a question of decid where to draw the line. 
 this year and the next may be the worst ever for the municip market in term of low volum of new issues, but the market should then be pois for a turnaround, said paul sinsar, drexel nation institut sale manag of municip bonds.drexel itself is attempt to increas it presenc in the municip market, recent reorgan it public financ effort by divid the depart along region lines. 
 "to the extent the nomura invest repres a willing to back contest transactions, it is a strategi differ from ours," said peter rona, chief execut of ibj schroder bank & trust co., a u.s. unit of industri bank of japan.mr. drapkin of the revlon group and some other u.s. merger expert contend that the transact indic that japanes firms, led by nomura, will push harder in pursu u.s. acquisitions, stretch the line between what is a friend and hostil bid. 
 the studi found, in addition, that two-third of all parent owe support were becom delinqu within three year of the order.th situation, which cross all incom and class lines, contribut signific to the impoverish of women and children. 
 "this will caus more hard feel in {the houston suburb of} river oak than steal someon els maid," joke rep. charl wilson (d., texas)."bentsen will draw the line in the dust like travi at the alamo." 
 mr. weld outlin to the senators, in essence, the indict he would have brought against mr. meese, had he been the independ counsel.mr. weld said he resign becaus "i simpli felt that, in tri to do favor for his friend, mr. mees was drawn in over his head, and over the line of what the law allows." 
 telemarket make rapid stride at u.s. corporations.lin between telemarket and tradit market are fast blurring, say a confer board report. 
 split along partisan lines, the senat judiciari committe yesterday reject the controversi nomin of bernard siegan to the court of appeal for the ninth circuit in san francisco. 
 potenti run mate were requir to submit box of document and to complet a questionnair so detail that sen. glenn divid it among his advisers.th 50-question survey, which ran more than six page single-spaced, itself serv as a winnow agent; mr. nunn drew the line at answer it, and hous major leader thoma foley wife, who is also one of his closest advisers, found it onerous. 
 there an element of sycoph in mr. mackay, but he never seem grate obsequious.th interest thing about his approach is that it forc him to tread a thousand fine lines. 
 but feder offici charg that some of the compani are go too far."when you'r mislead the public, there a line.most of these group go way over the line," say philip gambino, a spokesman for the social secur administration. 
 "it ludicr and rather obsequi to pretend you are warm, close friend in a busi environment," say ms. martin, the columnist."it obscur the line of rank and command." 
 "there a way of hugging, and there a way of hugging.and that one was over the line. 
 yet, at times, justic scalia can be unpredictable.h has said the court should rethink it 1973 test in which local communiti standard are use to decid when pornographi is protect by the first amendment; the line is too hard to draw. 
 cement a parti structur that was establish onli with western pressur as a channel for arms, and with it cement fring politics, "could make afghanistan look like lebanon," say mohammad naim farahi, a tribal leader from farah province.a better solution, say most afghans, is a "loya jirga," or tradit afghan congress made up of district representatives, chiefli along tribal or ethnic lines. 
 competit did, as advertised, save money, but it also made insid inform far more valuabl -- and threaten to the entir procur system itself.oper ill wind, the code name for the two-year investig blow like a typhoon through the pentagon, is show that some competitor are go over the line in vy for contracts, which now total more than $160 billion a year. 
 but as the southeast economi has boom in thatcherit britain, the blot are threaten the picturesqu edg of the greenbelt.though the govern promis it won't step over the line, the tori are increas refus to sanctifi place that lie just outsid it. 
 one copyright lawyer familiar with advertis issu said that if the fight get to court, the disput would hing on whether soap opera is "realli poke fun at roll stone, or whether they'r just use that campaign as a cheap, if you will, creativ attempt to ride on their shirttails."ther is a fine line between parodi and copyright infringement. 
 yet to a larg degree, mr. jackson has accomplish what he set out to do when he first announc his candidaci for the democrat presidenti nomination.h has succeed in creat a movement across racial line -- a movement of societi have-not -- and give that movement a drive focus for it polit aspirations. 
 so it soon will start a program to train near 50,000 complianc manag and employe by dec. 31 in the right and wrong way to use statistics.it a fine line to walk. 
 at maryland coordin center, about 60% of the client are singl parents, often poor, young, inner-c women.prematur and diseas reach across class line to the best and the worst of mothers, but a poor mother is at least twice as like to have a babi born with low birthweight -- the babi at much higher risk of problem such as mental retardation, chronic lung ailments, blind and deafness. 
 at maryland coordin center, about 60% of the client are singl parents, often poor, young, inner-c women.prematur and diseas reach across class line to the best and the worst of mothers, but a poor mother is at least twice as like to have a babi born with low birthweight -- the babi at much higher risk of problem such as mental retardation, chronic lung ailments, blind and deafness. 
 indeed, if mr. wright were a member of the execut branch, even the trivia the ethic committe is will to investig might prove polit fatal.w can't get too concern about draw line between public and privat expenditur of an aid time, but in 1983 former assist hud secretari e.s. sava was driven out of washington becaus one of his assist without his knowledg had a govern secretari spend 20 hour type correct in the manuscript for his scholar book, "privat the public sector." 
 libya col. moammar gadhafi was given the floor at the summit close to deliv a long lectur on the histori of liber movements, liken the struggl of the palestinian to the fight of the algerian against the french.among the moderates, jordan king hussein in particular manag here to walk a fine line between demonstr support for the palestinian and appear to wish to usurp the plo posit as the legitim spokesman for palestinians. 
 the scammer themselv are quick to move at the first hint of trouble, surfac in a new place under a new name to fleec a new flock.and frequent good case can't be made against them anyway, becaus the line between outright fraud and uneth but technic legal behavior is often indistinct. 
 mani takeov lawyer cross the line between legal advis and busi strategist. 
 "it is not easi to have a consensus," he said, "becaus it is technic a complex problem."th issu of reducing, maintain or increas the cartel product ceil has divid the minist along the same line as the production-definit issue, with a major of eight clear in favor of some action to prop up weak oil prices. 
 market research show strong demand in the hispan communiti for what he call "cross-ov shows," which are similar in content and format to the general show but gear to the hispan audience."mus transcend cultur lines," he said. 
 "to go beyond is veri hard (but) if we don't do it now we'r lost."th respons is most power among black voters, where apartheid touch an emot chord reach across class lines. 
 "to go beyond is veri hard (but) if we don't do it now we'r lost."th respons is most power among black voters, where apartheid touch an emot chord reach across class lines. 
 but sacc field worker still oper abov ground, out in the open, where their effort to monitor and allevi the repress condit in the countri black township bring them into constant conflict with the authorities.mr. kgori and other field worker walk the fine line between social work, which is grudg toler by the government, and activism, which isn't. 
 mr. walker and some other conserv believ that confront has it place."w think there is some merit in draw the line in the sand and say we want to draw the distinct between conserv and liberals," rep.. walker says. 
 wall street sourc say odyssey hold just under 5% of amfac, though it hasn't bought share sinc late 1986.odyssey is among the invest firm newli blur the line between management-endors leverag buy-out and hostil takeov transactions. 
 "i guess i would argu that there some inform that shouldn't be getable," mr. lambert says."everyon would draw the line somewhat differently.obviously, we draw the line that video rental is one area where peopl should have protection." 
 so, it reinstat the 1986 decision, which was written by chief judg patricia wald.a has been the case on some other recent occasions, the appeal court was split along ideolog lines, with five judg appoint by democrat presid vote to approv the watchdog group stand and five appoint by presid reagan opposed. 
 sinc one reason for creat a diffus held corpor in the first place is to separ govern from investment, this measur would rais transact cost somewhat.but the line must be drawn somewher regard sharehold particip in compani decisions. 
 had these student been given a basic ground in principl of busi ethics, they would have learn that this "go along to get along" mental is exact what has gotten so mani compani into trouble.in the area of gather competitor inform -- where there is a fine line between aggress market research and corpor espionag -- few busi decis are without ethic ramifications. 
 now everybodi and his brother want out.now we can get away from the blurri line between pure entertain and disguis toy commercial." 
 mr. dukaki also is be view more favor by black voters, whose enthusiast support he will need in november.in new york, where mayor ed koch strident attack on mr. jackson help creat a campaign sharpli polar along racial lines, black voter view mr. dukaki unfavor by a margin of 33% to 27%. 
 but a former chun govern offici said there was "noth approach a power struggl after the inaugur of the new president."oth say mr. roh has been walk a fine line in the post-chun period between his own polit interest and loyalti to the old friend and fellow general whom he help bring to power in 1979. 
 yet it isn't easi to serv both giant aerospac concern and one-man machin shops.milacron also must walk a narrow line, suppli the machin that manufactur want today without back away from advanc technology. 
 norman m. coulson, presid of glenf inc., the glendale, calif.-bas parent of the nation fifth-largest thrift, note that his institut has good will on it book stem from acquisit of troubl thrift that were made in the earli 1980s to help the fslic."i'm concern about how they draw the line," he said. 
 earlier this month, a major invest bank firm, shearson lehman hutton inc., took an equiti posit in a group seek control of kopper co., a pittsburgh construct materi concern.th move mark the first time in memori a takeov advis cross the line to act as a hostil suitor. 
 "the trend is to respect individu privaci a lot more and toler unorthodox life styles," say terri l. leap, a manag professor at clemson univers who has studi off-duti firings.h add that the grow use of drug test -- and subsequ fire -- has heighten the issu becaus it "draw the line between public and privat conduct." 
 like ms. luckyn-malone, whose research is supplement by a nikko secur co. affili in tokyo, mr. wignal insist that gt ultim rest it invest decis on fundamentals.for dimension fund advisors, the solut to tokyo inscrut is eleg simple: with help from nomura secur co., dfa rank compani in the tokyo stock exchang first section by market capitalization, draw a line between big and small stocks, and buy all the small one -- around 550 of them. 
 that, he says, is worrisome: "if the ethic of the corpor becom the ethic of the universities, then we'r realli in trouble."even now, univers busi program "walk a lot thinner line regard ethic than they use to," say charl hickman, director of project and member servic for the american assembl of collegi school of business. 
 in the ibm culture, that like russia politburo beg report to write about a hot young parti member.ibm draw the line on too much technic detail, however. 
 nbc and disney would like share profit from reruns, which may be syndic by disney buena vista sibling, if their comedi seri ultim is sold to local stations.a the line between cabl tv and the rest of the busi blur, cabl is mimick some of regular tv most timeworn techniques, such as the spinoff. 
 "what british attorney would defend a nazi in the second world war?" he asks. "in israel, we are at war, and if you defend terrorist you cross the line into the enemi camp."ms. tsemel cross that line just after the 1967 war. 
 none of the lead democrat has the nerv -- so far -- to demand from him a more complet accounting."in moderation," kevin phillips, the gop theoretician, said earlier this week, "some of that might actual help the democrats, but draw the line is go to be veri tricky." 
 a member of the japanes negoti team confirm that tokyo want the talk to continue, and said it has offer "sincer and substant proposals" and that "some progress has been made."th japanes acknowledged, though, that they had fail to reach agreement with the u.s. on sever issues, includ how to draw a line between the public and privat sector in the project discussed. 
 the structur of the partnership also allow the group to bypass feder antitrust regul that would have prohibit the member from easili accumul a larg posit in kopper stock; yesterday, the group disclos that it held a 7.45% stake in the company.bi join the hostil bid, shearson step over the line invest bank have long consid but rarely, if ever, crossed. 
 it also yield 10 to 12 basi point less than a compar ford motor credit offer in the u.s., accord to syndic specialists.however, the lacklust recept of general electr capit corp. mid-februari $250 million issu may demonstr that even a top-rat borrow can overstep the line between inexpens financ and an over aggress deal, syndic specialist argue. 
 we hear it as a rumor," say the investor."wher do you draw the line between a rumor and insid information?" 
 he add that onli about 50% of the financi planner affili with the compani work on commiss anyway; the other work for a fee.th seri bring up yet again the controversi over paid programming, which can blur the line between news and advertising. 
 mr. timmeny, now in privat practic in washington, is frequent hire by corpor board in such situations.that "bright line," he says, is a compani formal concensus to go after an acquisition. 
 but wast manag executives, he says, never cross it.oth say the line isn't quit so clear. 
 allegi corp. plan to make a $2.84 billion tender offer for 63% of it share appear to straddl the line in a tug-of-war between sharehold and the compani management. 
 "dan rather was out of control," said christin dolan, who direct cabl news network polit coverage."h had the right to press the vice president, but he cross the line with his badgering." 
 rancher play classic music to their cattl in the barns, while out in the fields, worker and their famili live on diet of leftov silage."th line between moral and immor has vanished," say fernando collor de mello, the governor.th drive to redraw that line start here sever year ago, when a state assemblyman name antonio saturnino de mendonca neto rais charg that the govern was full of money-grab loafers. 
 all major dealer are "certain less aggressive" in posit larg block of bonds, say robert dennis, presid of massachusett financi servic mfs manag municip bond trust.th brokerag firm are walk a "fine line between serv their custom and manag their own risk," he says. 
 for example, the question of "how much is too much" of a specif toxic chemic is one that has bedevil regulatori agenc sinc the begin of modern toxic law.even after a chemic is absolut confirm to caus cancer, base on laboratori or workplac doses, there is extens debat over the danger of smaller doses, and where or whether to draw a line between amount worth worri about and amount that can more or less be safe ignored. 
 even after a chemic is absolut confirm to caus cancer, base on laboratori or workplac doses, there is extens debat over the danger of smaller doses, and where or whether to draw a line between amount worth worri about and amount that can more or less be safe ignored.und the typic toxic control law, govern scientist and regul have the job of decid where to draw the line for each chemical; and until the line is drawn, in effect, the law is not in force. 
 this has long been a societi divid between the "haves" and the "will haves," to steal a phrase.when the day arriv that class line grow rigid, when we are a nation of perman have and have-nots, we will have becom someth other than america. 
 he propos develop "the idea of a refer zone that can be sustain for at least 18 months."oth echo this thought, though at least one wonder -- as i do -- whether there is ani defens line between the float rate that have prove so unstabl and fix rate intend to take preced over domest econom policy. 
 what this indic is that when order growth acceler . . . each increment revenu dollar will generat a lot of profit," mr. schulman added.sinc the stock market crash, digit has been tri to walk a fine line between expand market share -- by increas sale and market spend -- and control costs. 
 should -- and can -- the schools, mani of which are alreadi overburdened, take on the ad reponsibility?how sharpli should the line be drawn between the school educ and care functions? 
 when pressed, heinz eiermann, head of color and cosmet for the fda, conced that the peopl who buy these thing probabl "like to be fooled."but he say "there a line -- it may be a fuzzi line -- where you have to say, enough is enough." 
 "in the word of gypsi rose lee," ms. hoyt said, "you gotta have a gimmick."thi gimmick, mani pr consult concur, cross the line. 
 even now, univers busi program "walk a lot thinner line regard ethic than they use to," say charl hickman, director of project and member servic for the american assembl of collegi school of business.but in the case at west virginia univers colleg of busi and economics, the student not onli walk the line. 
 however, you'r miss the point.th constant danc on the border of what is crimin and what is not and the consist cross of the line of what is ethic by the attorney general of the unit state -- the highest legal offic in the land -- make a mockeri of our sens of justice. 
 "but most public compani fail to see the differ between a (short-term) bridg loan and an equiti investment, anyway.shearson step over the line, but it shouldn't hurt them. 
 the race mingl in depart store and at downtown restaurants, where citi employe all eat between noon and one.but beneath the cordial is a schism, larg along racial lines. 
 onc this happens, everyth from a phone call to a breakfast meet in the corpor dine room amount to corpor activ on behalf of a candid -- someth forbidden by the campaign laws.it too soon to say with certainti where the line is or how much one has to do to cross it. 
 broadway new hit, "the phantom of the opera," take place in the dim recess of a 19th centuri pari opera house.th dark, omin set deliber blur the line between audienc and stage; for instance, the proscenium has been move forward to embrac sever row of balconi seats.but the line between insid and outsid the theater has also been blurred. 
 but the law doesn't spell out clear what those "steps" could be, allow for sharpli differ opinion on the matter."you look for the bright line beyond which you should not trade," say wallac timmeny, a former deputi director of the secur and exchang commiss enforc divis who was hire by wast manag special committe to lead the investig of the insid trade allegations. 
 mr. timmeny, now in privat practic in washington, is frequent hire by corpor board in such situations. that "bright line," he says, is a compani formal concensus to go after an acquisition.mr. timmeni say that individu trader within a compani may reach that line befor the compani itself. 
 and no. 2, (if they do) it should be reveal that that is the arrangement," he says."that a fine line across which one shouldn't pass." 
 the obvious repli is that "tour of duty" is much more than a macho shoot-'em-up.within the constraint of prime time, it offer power yet clear-ey dramat of such divers topic as racial conflict, substanc abuse, the insensit of journalists, the arrog of anti-war protesters, the poignanc of reunion with love ones, the power of letter from home, trust and mistrust toward the south vietnamese, the line between use braveri and useless heroics, the ambit of officers, the decept of the enemy. 
 while we believ that we should have onli the govern we need, our respons to the most vulner member of our societi requir that we also have all the govern we need.wher the line get drawn is alway a matter of judgment. 
 we should consid set up special camp in our more underpopul state such as wyom or montana, where noncontribut segment of the popul can perform use work . . ."anoth letter sniffs: "as view from the other, presum greener, side of the line, i can assur you it is imposs to obtain the servic of a compet housekeeper. 
 they sit around hope someon will sudden say, let call it jell-o.'"brainstorm are alway walk the fine line of faux pas. 
 madison respond that the distinct was "altogeth fanciful.if a line can be drawn between the power grant and the right retained, it would seem to be the same thing, whether the latter be secured, by declar that they shall not be abridged, or that the former shall not be extended." 
 the high court let stand the feder reserv board approv for a bank hold company, a subsidiari of nation westminst bank plc, britain largest commerci bank, to oper a brokerag subsidiari that trade secur and offer invest advice.th fed approv was anoth in a seri of regulatori step that have blur the line between the bank and secur industries. 
 we'r inclin to think that the vice presid deserv some defend on this point.h alon seem will to say that a line has to be drawn somewher in front of the dead-end polit of the iran-contra affair. 
 mani are concern that reduc the overhang quick will wreck alreadi shaken markets, but there is pressur on the regul from congress and develop to sell as much as they can as soon as they can, and the pace seem to be quickening."you walk a veri fine line between fulfil your mandat of wind up the affair of the institution, and not creat disrupt in the marketplace," say thoma procopio, the feder save and loan insur corp. southern region director for receivership activities. 
 it was all too mellow to be believed, but they probabl would have gotten away with it, had they not felt compel to add ms. collin signatur tune, "amaz grace," and ask for audienc participation.that went over the permiss line for warm and fuzzi feelings. 
 "i'd be destroy myself," repli mr. korotich, who then asks, "what would that accomplish?"hi answer reveal his vulner -- it also draw the line that soviet societi must cross to enter the normal dialogu of western culture.it is the line beyond which the press can report not onli on the bankruptci of factori but on the failur of even admir leaders. 
 "peopl see extra messag in advertising, and if a manufactur is clear tri to get someth out of it . . . if it too transpar . . . then consum will see through that," warn john philip jones, chairman of the advertis depart at the newhous school of public communic at syracus university."it can backfir becaus compani can step across the line and go too far, be too pushy," agre gari stibel, a princip with new england consult group, westport, conn. 
 the fcc now say 8 p.m. is the time that is all right to begin air indec materi becaus children aren't like listen in great numbers. earlier, the agenc set the decenc line at midnight, but an appeal court reject that time as too restrictive."you have to draw some lines," said robert pettit, the fcc general counsel. 
 consult have said that it will take a while for all the piec of the ibm strategi to fall into place, even though the specif product ibm unveil will general be avail by the end of the first quarter.sam albert, a consult in scarsdale, n.y., said that in the past ibm has develop broad softwar strategi onli for problem that cross industri lines. 
 moreover, ticket split appear to take the same peculiar pattern at the state govern level as it doe at the feder level.st govern is more typic split along republican-governor/democratic-legislatur line than the reverse. 
 it has been right observ that the main thing wrong with taint money is, t'aint enough of it.a hand of the new crowd oper have cross the line from the immor to the illegal, and have end up in the slammer or pay huge fines: ivan boesky, denni levine, martin siegel, victor and steven posner, and now michael milken and perhap leona helmsley. 
 although wang will report a loss for the first quarter end sept. 30 and the full fiscal year, mr. miller say he expect the compani will return to profit by the fourth quarter.expert on sale techniqu say anyon repres a troubl compani must walk a fine line. 
 that the convent theori anyway.in practice, however, the line between interpret and redefinit of the crimin law long ago began to blur. 
 or did mr. chestman onli hear a market rumor (which one may law trade upon)?th line seem aw thin for criminal-law purposes. 
 although the averag citizen is probabl not harm too much from washington rhetor war against wall street regard excess financi leveraging, actual legisl would probabl impos consider harm.ani such attempt to distinguish "good debt" from "bad debt," or to draw the line at a particular industry, such as the airlines, is like to blunt the spur that the proper amount of leverag provid both to equiti market and econom effici in general. 
 "in most cases, the client is more inclin to be conserv becaus they want to protect a franchis that can take onli so much fiddling," say mr. lindsay."you'r tread a fine line." 
 indeed, research is the one clear compar advantag that educ institut have over other competitor in the field of human-resourc development.th line between educ and train is often a fine one, and european busi school should continu to ensur that the valu they can provid is differ from that of consult firm and in-hous corpor train programs. 
 news show use to be sacrosanct -- you show real footag or you didn't show anything.today, those line are blurred. 
 bush antitrust offici may not attack a substanti greater number of merger than the reagan administration, but their choic of case will signal an intent to appli a tighter mesh.th antitrust divis treatment of coor propos acquisit of stroh brew will indic where mr. rill plan to draw the line. 
 "we'v all done busi with them -- sold them car or houses," say a cali banker and polo club member who sometim has difficulti reach his offic floor becaus the narcos, who also have offic in his building, have bribe the elev oper with soccer ticket to stop onli at their floors."it veri difficult to draw the line." 
 what shock at first becom routin the fourth time, and "normal" the 14th.the line in mainstream film was cross in 1976 in "silver streak," a success comedi with gratuit violenc spice up the slapstick. 
 alreadi there have been passion exhang over the issu of syria.but the debat hasn't follow strict sectarian lines. 
 -- mr. breeden said the regul system could be strengthen by improv coordin among regulators.th sec and the commod futur trade commiss "should tri to develop mutual accept propos to defin product and jurisdict lines," he said, and the lack of clariti in determin jurisdict "doe advers affect u.s. competitiveness." 
 "bush has frustrat them, in part by do so little, in part by preserv his popularity.h been a difficult target and they'r so eager for a partisan confront to draw the line with him that they'v seiz on this." 
 he succeed richard t. gerstner, who has a chronic back problem that has kept him from work full-tim and who will move into an unspecified, special assignment.mr. cannavino, 45 year old, will bring more technic knowledg to the job than mr. gerstner possess -- at a time when the line between person comput and workstat is blurring, creat a confus array of technic choices. 
 but some bank have particip in leverag buy-out under waiver allow them to buy near 50% of small businesses.in the current climat in which sever leverag compani have run into trouble, unsettl the entir junk-bond market, the fed appar drew the line at allow the del mont unit to qualifi as a small business. 
 among his choic are coca-cola, merck, procter & gambl and philip morris.ther is a fine line between an economi that crawl and one that falls.mickey levy, chief economist at first fidel bancorp. in philadelphia, say he think the economi is walk that line. 
 thus, compani say they'r forc into a balanc act.say mr. brainard of refin sugars, "you'r realli walk a fine line between be abl to attract good peopl and be abl to run a profit busi without give away the store." 
 in scene like the one in which shirer cooper with a u.s. naval intellig offic request to do a littl spi on the side, the film illustr veri clear that the surviv of press freedom depend on that of legitim constitut government.when confront with a world-class liar like goebbels, or (more recently) with the kind of peopl who thought noth of whitewash the blood from tiananmen square, it hearten to know that a line still exist between journalist pride and journalist hubris. 
 under the senat bill, for example, a compani could be requir to offer ani benefit to 90% of employe and pay at least 60% of the costs.a senat aid familiar with section 89 say rep. rostenkowski "has move the line with this new proposal, but he hasn't abandon the principle. 
 "there a lot to be said for it," say william poole, a brown univers economist and former presidenti econom adviser."it would promot clear line of responsibility." 
 the $60 million sear just pocket from the state of illinoi in exchang for retain it headquart in the state may well repres a competit brake on the avaric of the state government.but there is a fine line separ tax rate reduct from the public dole. 
 "i believ in let compani have a reason return.but where doe one draw the line and say you'v made enough profit, and now it unseemly?" ask peter jensen, chief of infecti diseas of the san francisco va hospital. 
 some peopl even blame ir inact for encourag the epidem of build-noth bonds.th more aggress secur firm "put a foot over the chalk line and look around, and nobodi said anything," say austin koenen, vice chairman of the public secur association, "so everyon els move over the line." 
 the languag would extend this prohibit to the 20% of domest flight that aren't current cover by the no-smok rule.th same long-dist traffic account for a larger share -- more than a third -- of total airlin passengers, and tobacco alli had hope to draw the line at two hours. 
 the 37-year-old mrs. ros-lehtinen, who was born in havana, defeat mr. richman, 48, a miami lawyer, by 53% to 47% in a bitter fought race that pit mrs. ros-lehtinen littl havana constitu against mr. richman jewish constitu center in miami beach.both candid were critic for urg voter to cast their ballot along ethnic lines. 
 of workahol behaviorwith mani manag routin put in 60 hour work weeks, it may seem hard for them to know when they'v cross the line from simpli work hard to the unhealthi obsess of workaholism. 
 voter condemn the press for print all this inform at the same time they read everi word of it voraciously."draw the line is tricki business, but when it come to heterosexu politicians, at least there are a few basics. 
 "this is unquestion an indirect shot at general mills," say john mcmillin, food analyst at prudential-bach secur inc., note the question rais about the studi cite in general mill advertis for benefit.a for how one can distinguish between a "claim" and a "message," he says, "it a veri fine line." 
 ileana ros-lehtinen, who got 53% of the vote, is the first cuban-american elect to congress.both candid in the bitter fought race were critic for urg voter to cast ballot along ethnic lines. 
 mr. helmsley, 80 year old, was name in the indict but judg john walker jr. rule he wasn't well enough to stand trial.tax lawyer say the case involv area where it is hard to draw the line between crimin activ and defici tax practices. 
 "we'v got a lot of client that will never do this," stephen l. nesbitt, wilshir head of pension consulting, say of junk investing."for a lot of foundat and public funds, this cross the line of polit acceptability." 
 ---your writer remind us the problem cut across all socioeconom lines, affect all age groups, and result in stagger human and financi losses. 
 add john p. schaefer, an outsid board member who now is chairman, no one want to infring on mr. greve author and discretion."ther is a fine line," he says, "between oversight and interf in management." 
 moscow appear will to permit non-communist to attempt to reviv warsaw falter economi so long as the soviet union secur interest are protected.mr. walesa understand that there are line drawn by the soviet that his movement can't cross. 
 for hous and senat appropriators, chang prioriti mean adapt old method to new ends.tradit line of jurisdict blur as foreign-aid, space and militari account are tap for environment projects. 
 by slight modifi it technic standards, the new order add the ibm ps/2 model 50 and it clone to the list of desktop to be taken off the control list.th earlier decis drew the line at the ps/2 model 30 and their equivalents. 
 now congress, it seems, is close the windows, pull the shades, and bar the door, lest the public see the light.sometime, somewhere, the presid need to draw the line. 
 draw deepli on a lucki strike, he says: "we never had a problem with the nea until an acknowledg homosexu who die of aid -- and i'm sorri he did -- came along with a seri of photograph design to promot homosexuality.ther i draw the line."it is a line that mani beltway cassandra say may divid lawmak in "the smut and obscen vote of the year," a line run through an except tricki polit quagmire, in which the basic aesthet issu tend to sink below the surface. 
 over the decades, the suprem court has determin that so-cal commerci speech -- which it defin as speech lead to a commerci transact -- has less protect than doe the rest of speech.so if you say "buy finnegan ice cream," that has less protect than if you say "ice cream is good for you." (if you say "finnegan ice cream is good for you," it debat whether you'r lead up to a commerci transaction, which is one problem with draw line when line shouldn't be drawn.) 
 the lawsuit say mr. campbel inform mr. meier of inquiri made by the sec and the complianc depart of merril lynch and smith barney.lawy who have follow such case say there is a fine line between illeg insid trade and piggy-back that doesn't violat the law. 
 famili dissolution, moreover, is often the consequ rather than the caus of the econom reshuffl we are see in america.whil it is true that complex cultur chang have creat a steadi rise in divorc and illegitimaci dure most of the 20th centuri (the u.s. has had the highest divorc rate in the world sinc 1899), peopl with the lowest educ attain and greatest vulner to poverti have histor had the highest rate of divorce, illegitimaci and child neglect. (sexual abus is much more even distribut across class lines.) these are the peopl who have been the big loser sinc the late 1960s. 
 even peopl who did not accept that logic would have regard it as involv an unnecessari and undesir deflect of tax and expenditur program from their long-run course.ther was a polici consensus in favor of option b in a mild recess and option c in a sever one, with the main argument about how to draw the line between mild and severe. 
 "there is no doubt that there is some type of conduct involv the deliber releas of fals inform that may not just be libel but may also be fraudulent," agre mr. abrams, the libel attorney.but becaus so few suit are file over competit tactic -- and almost none ever decid in court -- the hazi line between what fair and what illeg can be hard to pin down. 
 but becaus so few suit are file over competit tactic -- and almost none ever decid in court -- the hazi line between what fair and what illeg can be hard to pin down."th line is not easi to define," say mr. hanson. 
 "but it come when an organ becom more concern with destroy a compet busi than in demonstr that it own good and servic are superior."h adds, "when the sole purpos of a market strategi is the defeat of a certain company, then the compani has gone across a line that probabl will lead into question behavior." 
 the clear suggest was that they had decid to throw the support of their power ldp faction behind mr. kaifu.tsutomu hata, a takeshita-fact diet member and former agricultur minister, said in a televis interview that mr. kaifu is "the type of person who cross faction lines," mean that he could be support by member of other factions. 
 advertis agenc are use to difficult clients, but sometim you have to draw the line. 
 the u.s. group fear a return to the violenc of the earli 1980s by death squad that have been link to some arena parti leaders."w believ the line has to be drawn veri clear on el salvador," say mr. byrn of cispes. 
 i think it fair to say that i would like to have the luxuri of be abl to make a cut as to some type of person that i would defend, and other that i would prefer not to.ther are peopl or institut that are legitimate, that have a real business, and who step over the line, and have to be held account for it. 
  there was thus a limit to wilson patienc . he public set it at the line where admit neutral right were infring after protract warn , and he made it a point of nation self-respect and honor to defend those right .
  the vital judici issu is apt , therefor , to be their accommod . decis thus becom essenti a matter of draw line .
  usual we come out that i can tell the compani everyth that i think will matter in the least bit to what he go to be like on the job from nine to five . if i thought he was go to be cruis at the water cooler at ten-thirti in the morn , i might have to draw the line .
  he was go to be put into confin , perhap for month ; he would be almost entir depriv of direct contact with other human be ; he would live in a steril , purifi world . and then deliber with further drug and radiat treatment he was go to be driven down to the fine line which separ life from death .
  what did it mean ? where was the line between intimaci and privaci ?
  she was surpris when shirley told her that the higgins , shirley first parents-in-law , had spoken of her as a socialist . all she had ever done was draw the line between possibl and inconceiv behavior , which were her person substitut for right and wrong .
  present , when jame gave a farewel parti becaus his sister and brothers-in-law were leav pari , he casual invit the maurel and the ziff . here they drew the line : enough was enough .
  i can't see ani basic differ between sell your bodi for sex and sell it for basebal or footbal ; or for that matter , sell the abil to write or draw . with sex , the line between give a dinner or a trinket and give cash seem particular thin .
  by ignor the democrat mean that is perhap the most basic tenet of liber , these new liber in fact abandon their earlier faith . not surpris , conserv welcom this chang of heart , as well as the program of social order and econom develop , thus blur the line between the two histor rival .
  this attitud is at the root of most of the cheat that has becom so preval late , abov all among success student in " good " school . the line is not easi to draw between read a teacher mind , or make him think you know what you don't know , and outright cheat .
  studi the human condit , a writer use such enlighten as come to hand . and as for the sex , artist in everi field have been abl to cross that line ; it is common knowledg that witch can chang their sex at will .
  in 1916 , harvard research physiologist regard the engin scienc somewhat as philosoph of the sixteenth centuri look on barber-surgeon use creatur but hard to be includ in the guild of scholar . when cecil propos the appoint of his brother philip , he step across tradit academ line .
  it labor director and faculti member were progress or radic . no polit line were drawn in admit student so that typic the student bodi includ conserv trade unionist as well as communist parti member .
  on the other hand , we should seek to minim , if not entir elimin , our militari presenc in the less develop countri of asia , and we should minim allianc that commit us irrevoc to their defens , particular in unilater action , or run the risk of embroil us in their civil war . it will not alway be easi to draw the line between undesir militari role and use one .
  forward suppli can larg be store in these same area , and land forc are best held in reserv on our own soil . draw a line between militari aid and militari involv may be harder , but it can be done if we keep the distinct clear in mind .
  to lincoln charg that popular sovereignti was incompat with the dred scott decis , dougla repli that citizen of a territori could bypass the decis simpli by fail to pass law to protect slaveri , sinc slaveri obvious could not exist anywher without law to protect it . the repli was suffici to let dougla gain re-elect to the senat in illinoi , but it split the democrat parti into slaveri and popular-sovereignti faction which divid along section line .
  the fact is , howev , that while the regim has fluctuat between permiss and crackdown , noth fundament has chang . the suppos new freedom and reform all stop safe befor the line where they might imping on the power monopoli .
  the object was to make a kill , and noth less would do . the climb curv of the dow-jon averag was liter a fever chart of a specul virus which cross all social and econom line .
  mispris is one thing ; cocksur , quick-on-the-trigg judgment are anoth . it is a narrow line we walk , alway , between help and hindranc .
  the relationship between the two is dialect ; it is imposs to determin in the abstract at what exact point a gang of common crimin becom a revolutionari armi . in practic , prime minist trudeau conclud that with the kidnap of the british diplomat , jame cross , and pierr laport , the quebec liber front ( flq ) had cross the line .
  it is no wonder that mani of the old sourdough made it a practic to break up partnership befor the winter set in , live like hermit until spring mellow the atmospher and made companionship desir again . for those who normal tread at the veri edg of mental disord , the advent of the long dark is the catalyt agent that push them over the line into the realm of insan .
  she turn to confront him , a spark of anger in her eye . " that goe beyond the line of pleas , sir !
  adam was prone to absent himself from capit and cabinet when congress was not in session , tempt his subordin to seek other counsel . but hamilton overstep the line of proprieti , inde of candor .
  as far as i'm concern , if anyon expect me to accept his rule on sex , he must prove that he doesn't have dusti cobweb insid his skull or in his crotch . have said all that , i can almost hear your next question : is there ani place where daddi doe draw the line ?
  at a height of 6 feet , 4 inch and weight of 220 pound , greg cook is cut from the mold that roman gabriel has made fashion for quarterback star . much more handsom than namath , with blond hair swirl mod-styl about his face , greg say , " there a hairlin differ between confid and overconfid and i'm sit right on that line . "
  in fact , the religion of mani simpl peopl are more involv than our own . where we draw the line between superstit and religion , primit man doe not .
  and he favor husband accompani their wive to the hospit , don a white smock , and lend their emot support dure labor . but after that he drew the line .
  " while canterburi stood silent , a kent state functionari stare at lunin and said , " those student shouldn't be on that hill . there has to be a line drawn somewher .
  on some region , in fact , specialist have strong tie to the third market becaus they are free , as big board specialist are not , to shop with third-market firm when tri to buy or sell block . the line between the third market and the other market are blur in other way .
  right now you may be in love with rachael and tri to know the limit of that love . appar the line is drawn short of marriag .
  for what one practition has term " therapi virgin , " howev member with no previous experi of group therapi the marathon is not without it danger . ordinari neurot well within the border of ani definit of saniti often undergo in their daili live state that verg on the psychot ; a marathon may push these person over the line into an actual psychosi .
  here was age inconceiv but not death , for the moon had never live until now . the descend ship was pois almost abov the line divid night from day , and direct below was a chao of jag shadow and brilliant , isol peak catch the first light of the slow lunar dawn .
  from canada come an exampl of this genr , zero the fool , a movi shot , edit and direct by morley markson and in this case , the name and major event don't seem to have been tamper with even slight . kay armatag , a critic for montreal avant-gard bimonth take one , review this final assault on the thin line separ " cinema life " from " real life . "
  okay . most of us have to function somewher below the genius line .
  it sheer presumpt to suppos that the organ orient of matter is ani more live than the inorgan , it sheer human vaniti to imagin the soul is ani more immut than a piec of rock , a pebbl in a penguin nest . draw for me , the ice said , the line between life and not-lif .
  i mere lack the hammer of thigh and hip muscl which normal drive the nail home . the line between me and the youth frolick in the sea with my girl was a thin one , but i couldn't step over it .
  and then , in a quiet voic , almost as though she were talk to herself , as though she had forgotten the exist of the other , annett said : " where will it end ? where will the line be drawn ?
  how is it go to be close again ? who go to draw the line ?
  a somewhat smaller percentag of marri coupl complain that their mothers-in-law are too indiffer and disinterest in them . these repres the two side of a veri narrow line that a mother must walk as soon as her child marri .
  in franc the best athlet have job at which they do littl or no work , in order to permit them to concentr on train . even australia , one of the few nation that still hold a firm line between amateur and profession , send it team to camp for an extend pre-olymp period .
  the front had been brought much closer to shore ; it now lay onli two hour from port , where sky and water met in the west . that was the thin line between war and peac .
  " young ladi , i'm afraid some of your idea need rethink befor you carri them out into the world . " it was a pleasant tough smile on a face itself pleasant tough , despit the blur of line that overweight and the pass year had brought , and shirley answer smile lit up the corner of her person .
  when the servic is over , the famili sit down to a robust meal and a good long chat , for convers remain an essenti part of life in the absenc of such pale substitut as televis . general , howev , work and religion are the twin theme becaus the amish draw no line between work and religion and life .
  i was , in part , terribl discourag , but at the same time excit by the narrow escap from victori . the line between the russian cellist cooper and reject seem so thin .
  in general , childhood phobia are less serious than phobia which develop later in life . it is difficult to draw a fine line between univers fear and common phobia .
  one of the toughest depart troubleshoot . his presenc reflect the sensit line between air forc and state .
  no. she could not prove that mrs. willymor had secret intent , or that her word were fals . the line between recov and has recov was fine .
  equal , on it posit side , reflect the desir of individu to emul the good life as exemplifi by other , to catch up , to improv , to excel , to realiz more fulli their potenti , to develop and express themselv , to contribut , to count ( and be count ) as respons actor in their time . but across a thin line lie the other aspect of the drive for equal .
  one of the most import paint from this find , front face , a portrait of a negro child in a soldier suit , realiz $67,000 at parke-bernet in 1970 . sometim the line between expertis and plain dumb luck is veri thin .
  from here on , either he would sit on his own front porch watch his cattl feed on his hillsid , or he would return to san souci and give himself up . was the line between heaven and hell realli so thin ?
  the definit of alcohol is vagu , and the diagnosi is difficult . it not alway easi to know where to draw the line between a strong depend on alcohol and out-and-out alcohol .
  senat are constant ask to choos between particular region need and nationwid goal , and the good one learn to balanc their loyalit . they walk a fine line in do it . the career diplomat in kabul also had a fine line to walk .
 at that point, mr. keenan said he would again have to check on exact where the share reposed.h made anoth call and came back on the line with the news that the stock was at eppler, guerin & turner, a texa brokerag firm with no offic whatev in utah. 
 a spokesman for the nsa declin to comment on the agenc role in the iran-contra affair.intellig sourc said the encrypt devices, describ as computer-typ keyboard that are connect to ordinari telephon lines, aren't the most sophist such machin develop by the nsa. 
 plessey co. and general electr co. of britain receiv the first big export order, valu at the equival of about $24 million, for their system x digit telephon exchange.plessey said telecom colombia, the nation telecommun author of colombia, is buy 13 of the exchanges, involv a total of 68,000 telephon lines. 
 "addit increas won't be necessari to bring long-dist rate down," he said.th subscriber-lin charge, also call the access charge, make subscrib pay part of the fix cost of the line to home and small busi rather than ad these cost to long-dist service. 
 mr. fowler action appear aim at quell grow congression opposit to ani increase.th subscriber-lin charge, also call the access charge, make subscrib pay part of the fix cost of the line to their home and small busi rather than ad these cost to the cost of long-dist service. 
 the plan, call linkup america, would pay for half the cost of telephon installation, or a maximum of $30; the remaind of the instal charg would be financ over time.in addition, low-incom resid wouldn't be requir to pay subscrib line charges. 
 "i don't look for ani real dramat change," said paul g. sherer, an analyst with robertson, colman & stephens, a san francisco invest concern.mr. sherer said that while equatori market nich is potenti lucrat -- it is the sole supplier of low-spe satellit data communic system for compani which now must depend upon dedic telephon line -- it satellit system still are consid experiment technolog by mani corpor telecommun managers. 
 instead, they use such compani as us sprint communic co. telenet subsidiari and mcdonnel dougla corp. tymnet subsidiary, which charg cut-rat prices.thes compani rent privat telephon line and spread the cost among thousand of comput users. 
 it also will issu $23 million in credit on custom local phone bill in the same period.som 1.3 million custom with 1.6 million telephon line will be affected. 
 but in recent years, some invest bank -- among them morgan stanley & co., goldman, sach & co. and salomon brother inc. -- have becom major currenc trader as well.now the three firms, and perhap others, are appli for direct line to the new york fed. 
 the issu of direct access rais signific polici and possibl legal questions: doe the fed have author to deal with entiti beyond it regulatori control?and if the fed open line with some invest banks, must it then open it door to all non-bank institutions? 
 "telecommun will be a red hot spot for new small-busi ideas," believ jame r. swartz, manag partner of accel partners, a ventur capit firm.on accel investment, general communic corp., has develop telephone-lin switch and transmiss devic which offer multipl use of a singl home telephon line, includ simultan transmiss of voic and pictures. 
 for a month fee of about $12 (plus the price of each call), the answer servic -- actual a "dial service" -- will dial your desir number, call you back and patch you into the call.a red light on the phone indic when one of the servic 20 other custom is use the line. 
 regulators, who have set up a telephon hotlin to help with the transition, said patient can either choos anoth feder qualifi hmo or return to tradit fee-for-servic medicar benefits.a feder complianc offic doubl as an oper on the 800 telephon number said saturday, "we have six lines, and they are never not ringing." 
 such a trade strategi would ordinarili be a prescript for instant losses.but the trader say he was mere follow instruct from his client -- a fed dealer on the other end of a dedic privat telephon line. 
 in atlanta, john l. clendenin, bellsouth chairman and chief executive, said the result "reflect strong growth in both our telephon oper compani and our non-regul subsidiaries."whil also provid no detail of the unregul businesses, he said bellsouth telephon compani unit ad a record 177,000 new access lines. 
 the restrict are exasper for manufacturers, who must contend with huge competit pressur spark by the technolog changes.th standard telephon has given way to a complex electron devic that has the potenti to enabl people, comput and offic machin to communic along the same line at the same time. 
 the world bank and ida also approv $150 million in credit to india for urban develop project in the state of uttar pradesh.morocco will get a $125 million world bank loan to help modern and expand telecommun facilities, includ telephon lines. 
 new product announc yesterday -- a phone system call spirit and an updat merlin system -- are part of a plan to overhaul the unit, said john a. "gus" blanchard, group vice presid in charg of the unit.th unit sell phone and phone switch to busi with fewer than 80 line and was one of sever busi at&t consid abandon last fall. 
 the market for phone system is fair flat and intens competitive; at&t, intern busi machin corp. rolm unit and northern telecom ltd. vie each year for the no. 1 spot and togeth control 60% to 70% of the market, accord to analysts.at&t said it new spirit system, which has been in control introduct in southern california, is design for non-offic busi and, in the larger model, can accommod as mani as 24 line and 48 phones.merlin ii, the larger of the new merlin systems, can accommod as mani as 32 line and 72 phones. 
 that van gogh paint sold for 290,000 time it origin value.th line was quiet. 
 a board of feder and state regul last month vote to increas the subscriber-lin charg by a total of $1.50 by april 1989.the charg make subscrib pay part of the fix cost of the line to home and small busi rather than ad these cost to long-dist service. 
 so for judg schwartzberg, the practic consider of find space for file and peopl to do the file are a top priority."w will have to add more copi machines, more telephon lines, more cleric staff," he said. 
 offici of each airlin said onli that they have held talk with the compani about suppli trintex subscrib with the abil to order airlin ticket use person computers.videotex system distribut interact inform and other services, usual over telephon lines, to user with person computers. 
 while 15 of the 16 largest softwar compani are on the east or west coasts, wordperfect is in utah.when most softwar compani complain about the cost of answer question from users, wordperfect provid a toll-fre line for it custom calls. 
 but multim has slip recent at the same time as the wang system has fallen out of favor.on key to wordperfect growth was it toll-fre help line. 
 one more twist: the yen thus rais were "swapped" into u.s. dollar for deliveri to the canadian government."w had sever telephon conferences, and at the final bidding, we had peopl on the line in ottawa, and our peopl on in toronto, new york, london and on a speakerphon in tokyo," say a manag in the tokyo head office. 
 they do so by call 976-chat in los angeles.for $2 plus toll charges, caller are allow to particip for about two and a half minut in confus convers which altern between effort to figur out who is on the line and the rambl of teen-ag minds. 
 what is this? (a mother voice)-- it a chat line. -- a chat line? 
 in less than a minut i had a list of 33 book that met those criteria; in less than two minut i had a six-pag printout to take with me to the new hanov counti library, which, incidentally, last month replac it microfilm card catalog with comput and cd-rom disks.of course, the bowker system is design primarili for commerci accounts, not for indol research like myself, and as such it has option to allow bookstor and librari to place order electron over the telephon line with major book wholesalers. 
 this, of course, induc long-dist carrier to look for a varieti of other way to reach their customers, includ privat microwav relay and fiber-opt cables.in order to reduc the incent for long-dist compani to bypass the local compani through altern distribut systems, the fcc institut a fix month "subscrib line charge" for residenti and busi subscribers. 
 this charge, impos in june 1985 at $1 a month, is now $2 a month for residenti subscrib and $6 a month for multilin busi customers.th charg is de sign to make subscrib pay for part of the fix cost of the line to their home or busi rather than ad these cost to the cost of long-dist service. 
 anoth hot new market: sophist gear for busi and industry.canon u.s.a. inc. aim at government, the media and real estat with it electron still camera, which doesn't use film and can transmit pictur over telephon lines. 
 commodor is hope sale will come from the boom desktop-publish markets, which is appl domain, as well as more special user in the music, video, and graphics-rel professions.for instance, by use the amiga, advertis agenc could develop full-color stori board and send them over telephon lines. 
 take inform services.adv in technolog sinc the time of the decre mean that comput can more easili communic with each other over telephon line -- that especi import now that there are an estim 12 million home comput in america, apart from the million of offic systems. 
 onli 40 firm current display quot on seaq international, about two-third of it capacity.but mr. nash said there are about a dozen entri request that have been delay by a lack of necessari telephon lines. 
 sell softwar electron has been tri befor without much success, primarili becaus the devic were so limited, say chuck kinch, computerland vice president, products.som units, for instance, distribut softwar by telephon line from a central location, but the process wasn't reliable, mr. kinch says. 
 the ibm announc said the pc convert will now come with a "supertwist" liquid crystal display screen, which use a new technolog to great enhanc readability.ibm also dealt with complaint about the modem, which let comput communic across telephon lines, by offer an option modem that adapt to the industri standard. 
 occasionally, the languag seem formulaic: after comput confirm a rocket "incred precise" trajectories, an air forc general enter his "high secure" office.mo later the secretari of defens speak on a telephon line avail onli to "veri senior administr officials." 
 the state panel confirm an earlier rule that determin the servic to be in the public interest.in addition, it order pacif telesi group inc. pacif bell unit and gte corp. general telephon co. of california unit to continu effort to find an inexpens way to block access to 976 program from their telephon lines. 
 the union leaders, from 24 countries, claim to repres some 26.5 million organ worker around the world.th propos measur includ set up toll-fre telephon line in britain and other countri for ibm employe to contact union organizers, form an intern clear hous for the union to swap inform about ibm, step up recruit advertis and public instanc of what labor leader call ibm "union-busting" actions. 
 us sprint communic co., a long-dist telephon compani own joint by gte corp., stamford, conn., and unit telecommun inc., kansa city, mo., is also expect to enter the competition.th new servic would replac the feder manag network of own and leas equip and leas long-dist telephon line that link 1.3 million govern worker nationwid and handl 300 million call a year. 
 american telephon & telegraph co. said it sign a $92 million contract with the navi to instal a telecommun network link 14 naval facil in the san francisco bay area.th 10-year agreement includ 40,000 telephon lines, in a system that will have capac of 120,000 lines. 
 one of them recal that when col. north found out that defens secretari caspar weinberg object to the plan to forc down an egyptian airlin carri the achill lauro terrorists, he persuad his secur council superior to initi order the white hous oper not to disturb presid reagan with telephon calls.(mr. weinberg and the presid eventu spoke over an unsecur line while mr. reagan was aboard air forc one and mr. weinberg was on anoth aircraft.) 
 mr. rollwagen also said he told seymour cray, the compani founder, about how appl was use the machine."ther was a paus on the other end of the line," mr. rollwagen recalls, "and seymour said, that interesting, becaus i'm design the next cray with an apple.'" 
 at the feder bureau of investigation, agent probe the iran-contra affair are assign "secure" telephon line that can't be bugged. 
 base on rochest close price of $44.75 a share in composit trade yesterday on the new york stock exchange, the transact has a total valu of about $26.3 million.enterprise, which serv about 15,700 access line in a territori between harrisburg, pa., and philadelphia, will becom rochest telephon third telephon oper compani in pennsylvania. 
 but offici close to mr. carlucci said the new nation secur advis is determin to serv as an honest broker between the pentagon, the state department, the cia and other agencies.th offici said mr. carlucci also has been care to secur a direct line to presid reagan, bypass white hous chief of staff donald regan. 
 the commiss vote 5-0 to seek public comment on a plan to "streamline" regul of packet switch network and telecommun servic offer under competit contracts.commerci packet switch servic divid data transmiss into tini digit segment and rout those segment econom over telephon lines. 
 pictur hundr of trader sit or stand at consoles, each with perhap eight or more flash comput screens.pictur each trader with two telephon handsets, connect by direct line to mayb 500 custom and fellow traders. 
 the transact includ j.b.n. independ communic inc. unit, a fairview, kan., provid of communic servic to the defens department, the telecommun concern said.j.b.n. telephon serv 2,500 access line in 13 exchang in north central kansas, contel said. 
 boston -- the call came short after michael janeway resign under pressur as editor of the boston globe.sudden gov. michael dukakis, almost a stranger, was on the line invit him over to the statehouse, and there, alone, the two talk about how much it hurt when a man work hard at a job he love -- and is judg a failure. 
 the compani also want to expand in telecommun to take advantag of the growth in that industry.for example, it is produc and instal a product that enabl util to read custom meter through telephon lines. 
 ibm also boost the 9370 prospect by announc product that will let it attach to a token-r network, which will help it communic with other ibm computers.in addition, ibm announc product that will make it easier to group 9370s, to have a 9370 dial into a central comput through telephon line and to updat a 9370 softwar from a remot location. 
 the result of this bureaucrat obstacl course: new foreign investment, exclud compani alreadi establish in the philippines, reach a meager $712,000 in the first quarter of this year.mani businessmen claim it is more difficult to transact busi now than under mr. marcos, when a direct line to the palace, howev costly, usual assur an investor of offici cooperation. 
 irv trust co., a major player in the foreign exchang market, said it is take a "sabbatical" from interbank deal after it trade desk was "decimated" in a move by a group of dealer to e.f. hutton & co.irv has trade currenc sinc the 1920s and is one of about a dozen u.s. bank with direct trade line to the feder reserve. 
 similarly, at&t blame the breakup of the bell system for lack of certain servic that use a separ signal network within the nation phone system.thi network is use within at&t long-dist line to send the phone number separ from the call itself, enabl at&t to keep from send call to place where line are busy. 
 instead of push hot new fund through perform rankings, compani are now emphas diversification.and with mani investor unabl to get through clog telephon line dure the crash, compani are stress service. 
 abc also is test new market approach for it soaps.it has creat a soap-opera trivia contest on radio and a special 900 telephon line call "soap talk." 
 neither one is practical."gm, he notes, has establish toll-fre complaint lines, and has rewritten it servic bulletin for fifth-grade-level readers. 
 the feder communic commission, which recent eas up on raunchi radio and tv shows, yesterday start crack down on raunchi telephon services.th agenc launch investig into whether two california compani violat the communic act by provid lewd telephon messag without screen the call to see if children were on the line. 
 but with the citi growth as the west coast financi hub and the gateway to the pacif rim, businessmen with expens account have clamor for first-class hotel rooms.guests, who typic shell out $175 to $300 a night for a singl (the price can go up to $3,000 for the ne plus ultra in sybarit surroundings), are be pamper with larger room or suites, real marbl bathroom with television, phone with more than one line, plush robes, exot flower and complimentari wine. 
 at the hospital, nobodi could call in except on the emerg number.lin out were jammed. 
 "they can't," he say flatly.aft decad of scrimp on new equipment, british telecom is stuck with a tired, antiqu phone system that is expens to maintain and prone to cross lines. 
 teradyn inc. said it receiv a $25 million contract from british telecommun plc for it autom test system for subscrib lines. 
 recent join the list of foreign player were austria girozentral vienna and belgium banqu bruxell lambert.richard w. magee, manag director of tullett & tokyo forex inc., a currenc broker, said that in the past year, the compani has instal trade line to about a dozen new branch of foreign banks, most from smaller countries. 
 oper sometim take half an hour to answer the phone.lin mysteri go dead, and repairmen won't fix them unless paid tips. 
 comput scienc also has been "consist late" in provid certain qualiti control products, he said, result in some incorrect payment to provid and incorrect report to the state.and the compani has fail to set up suffici toll-fre telephon line to handl inquiri from providers, he added. 
 in your may 21 stori about the phone industri bill custom for unconnect calls, i was surpris that you did not discuss whether such bill is appropriate.a caller who keep a line open wait for a connect use communic switch and transmiss equip just as if a convers were take place. 
 there is no more reason not to pay for tie up network facil when call go unansw than there is for a refund on gasolin when one drive to a store onli to find that desir merchandis is out of stock.cal anxious to reach parti whose line are busi or unansw can freeli redial until they get through. 
 as the long-dist market becom more competitive, however, price of servic will conform more to the cost of provid those services.if hold a line open while wait for a call to be answer impos costs, eventu a price will be charged. 
 the feder reserv bank of new york said it grant "several" currenc broker direct access to it foreign exchang desk, a privileg previous limit to about a dozen commerci banks.for the time being, the new york fed said, it will use direct line to broker onli to gather market information, and it will continu to deal onli with bank in foreign exchang transactions. 
 "it a step in the right direction," an invest banker said of the move.a fed spokesman said friday that extend line to invest bank is still under consideration. morgan stanley & co., goldman, sach & co. and salomon brother inc. are among the invest bank that have becom major foreign exchang market particip in recent year and seek line to the fed. the fed wouldn't say which or how mani broker it establish link with, but two new york broker identifi themselv as have open line to the fed: noonan, astley & pearc inc. and tullett & tokyo forex inc.for the fed, line to broker provid instantan inform on exchange-r moves.for brokers, as for commerci banks, get a line to the fed bring prestig and at least the appear of have access to the intern work of the often secret central bank.if the fed eventu choos to use broker for it currenc transactions, the line also could deliv sizabl chunk of profit business. 
 the broker combin averag daili trade volum was $25.9 billion, a rise of 84% sinc 1983.broker had been seek line to the fed sinc the 1970s, accord to joe roderick, vice presid at noonan astley.th fed hasn't discuss it deliber about grant line to invest banks. 
 he also said he didn't learn of morgan stanley decis to rescind the trade until his broker call him at about 11:30 edt last night."h said they'd have an explan in the morning, so i won't know until then what we'r go to do," he said while his lawyer held on anoth telephon line. 
 rolm oper in europ are much smaller than those in the u.s.in britain last year, ibm and rolm had less than 3% of the market for larg offic switchboards, privat autom branch exchang handl 100 or more telephon lines, accord to dataquest inc., a san jose, calif.-bas market research firm. 
 but a new breed of investor is go high tech.som carri beeper that alert them to sudden market changes; other rent or buy portabl comput that retriev financial-new wire by telephon line. 
 that becaus not all of those switchboard keep track of whether call are rout long distance, so it would be difficult to add access charg to such calls. he said the agenc would look at way to monitor such call and may propos a flat-rat fee for some privat lines.th fcc current make compani pay $25 a month for certain local line that connect to big compani switchboards, but it feel that the revenu rais from those charg is inadequate. 
 major firm contacted, includ morgan stanley & co., kidder peabodi & co., painewebb inc., goldman sach and salomon brothers, all either deni that they were respons for the buy or declin comment.a news of the ralli in mmi futur reach the new york stock exchang (major firm maintain open line both to their trader in chicago and to specialist in new york), the market got anoth import psycholog boost: the announc of stock buyback by major corporations. 
 it has made organ-donor educ it public cause, and bow to "grow public concern," it begrudg pull out of south africa earlier this year.it set up a special 800 inquiri line for reporters, support a science-journ project and launch a "dow let you do great things" ad campaign.
 a caller in chicago, for instance, could call a chicago compani and get switch to a branch offic in new york without pay the full long-dist rates.to pay for such activity, the fcc now make compani pay $25 a month for certain local line that connect to big compani switchboards. 
 rochest telephon corp. said it sign a letter of intent to acquir c,c&s system inc. for about $25 million in stock.jackson, mich.-bas c,c&s system is a hold compani that oper c,c&s telco inc., a telephon compani that serv 17,000 access line in south-centr michigan, and t-com inc., a page servic that oper in florida, michigan and texas. 
 rochest telephon oper three telephon compani in new york and four in pennsylvania.it compani serv a total of more than 500,000 access lines. 
  more than a week after the market tumbl through the glass into wonderland, the telephon line at rothschild secur corp. still crackl with custom anger and apprehension. 
 it is the feder reserv bank of new york, agent for the u.s. government.and for a moment, mr. scala doesn't see the line light up."when that line come in, you'v got to pick it up quick," mr. remigio chide his partner. 
 a hotlin servic oper by the institut of secur market develop handl complaint from investors.in recent weeks, as mani as one thousand caller a day have clog the line just to "let off steam," say leon hu, presid of the government-sponsor agency. 
 wall street chao spur activ in a $99, simul trade game from wall street game inc., wellesley, mass.with noth real at stake, player still swamp the game toll-fre telephon lines, sell stock short on monday and buy on tuesday and yesterday. 
 but southwestern bell economist note that the sign of a recoveri are center in the manufactur segment and provid a weaker boost to demand for phone servic than doe an econom rebound fuel by servic and construct industries.mr. barn said that in the past 12 months, the phone compani custom line increas onli 38,000. 
 "that is far below our tradit growth rate within our five-st territory," he said.that also sharpli contrast with gain of 176,000 new line by pacif telesi group telephon compani unit dure the third quarter. 
 the sipc is an industry-back organ that provid reimburs to individu custom of fail member firms.meanwhile, some firm weren't answer their trade line yesterday, possibl to avoid sale that would drive price of their proprietari littl issu down even furtheir, trader said. 
 revenu rose 8% to $3.12 billion from $2.89 billion.bellsouth had a record increas of 232,000 new custom line in the quarter.so far this year, it said, it has gain 504,000 new lines, compar with 510,000 for all of 1986. 
 indeed, even enthusiast conced that human oper have a role."if you have a consum complaint line and a comput answer it, that the worst possibl application," say brad wendkos, presid of phoneworks, a hackensack, n.j., firm that design telephon promotions. 
 revenu rose about 1% to $2.33 billion from $2.31 billion.donald e. guinn, chairman and chief execut officer, said the compani pacif bell telephon co. unit ad more than 176,000 new custom line dure the quarter. 
 d.c. staley, chairman, said the result "are within our expectations," although the rate of growth in net incom has been "slow somewhat due to invest and expenditur intend to improv nynex long term financi outlook."th compani had 14.3 million access line in servic at the end of the quarter, up 3.2% from the year earlier period. 
 mr. nakasone, meanwhile, retain the power of consider public popular and control over a sizabl faction within the ldp.his goal is to continu to exert that power and to keep a line open for a repeat session as prime minist in a few years. 
 mari and philip robertson have sent a postcard from itali to their three shih tzus."dear nanky-poo, yum-yum and tu ling," the card says, "we are have a splendid time, but as always, miss you guys." (some client telephon to talk to their dogs, but ms. katz joke tell them that the pet are "on anoth line.") 
 mani mutual fund offer telephon switch privileg where an investor can call to switch out of a stock mutual fund into a money-market fund at the end of that day trading.but sometim a fund telephon line are jammed.when stock price made sharp correct earlier this year, some investor complain they tri unsuccess for three and four day to get through to mutual fund on 800-number telephon lines. 
 these view have been translat into action.when mr. harkin was a member of the house, he was instrument in persuad congress to purchas up-to-d equip that allow hearing-impair peopl to communic by type messag over the telephon lines. 
 at&t recent price decreas have not been shown to result from increas efficiency, deregul or competition.they are larg the result of the fcc effort to shift telephon cost from long-dist carrier to local monopoli compani through increas in subscrib line charg and separ changes. 
 conserv suspect it is actual spend much more.peopl for the american way volunteers, use a dozen telephon line at the group washington headquarters, this week will be urg member in alabama, arizona and pennsylvania to contact sens. 
 mani of those downtown worker who arriv at their offic after the quak were turn away.stor and bank branch in the area didn't open or open late, and telephon line into the los angel area were overload for sever hour follow the quake. 
 so far, os/2 hasn't sold well, main becaus there were no program that tap the oper system snazzi graphic and abil to juggl sever comput task at once.sidekick provid a planner calendar, an autom phonebook, a calculator, a bare-bon word processor, and make it easi for a person comput to connect with other comput through telephon lines. 
 merril execut familiar with the telecommun oper offer a differ view. they said the compani current use a combin of dedic privat line and public line to transmit voice, data and video signals.th use of the line is coordin by an intern technic staff and managers. 
 but judg from their vast differ market methods, the cattl auction might as well be on differ planets.superior livestock auction, which has headquart here and in brush, colo., use a satellit dish, dozen of camera crews, nation distribut catalog and hundr of telephon line and video screen to market steer that never leav the ranch until they are sold. 
 an import challeng face mr. adam is the distress economi of the compani regional-servic territory, which has been hard hit by the drought and energi slump.last year, the compani telephon busi had it poorest annual growth volum for new telephon line sinc the great depression.it instal onli 8,100 new lines. 
 but insid say they believ mr. adam can step up to the challenge.in texas, he stimul new telephon line growth by push advanc product such as integr servic digit network, which combin voice, data and video transmiss over one telephon line.for the third quarter, new telephon line quadrupled, with texa respons for about 62% of the growth.th compani ad 114,866 new line in the quarter. 
 "our comput have been down for 1 1/2 days."th facsimil machine, which can send and reproduc copi of a document over telephon lines, is sudden ubiquitous. 
 the tape-record voic answer the phone tell caller how to enter a contest for a free trip to london, which includ a plug for continent airlines.if you stay on the line, run up an even bigger phone bill, the same voic goe on to advertis the movie, and would have gone on but i'd heard enough. 
 revenu from telephon oper increas 7% to $634.6 million, while long-dist connect servic surg 10.5% to $327.9 million.william l. weiss, ameritech chairman and chief execut officer, said the compani had it "largest telephone-lin increas ever," a 2.5% jump for a total of 371,000 line installed. 
 zane e. barns, southwestern bell chairman and chief execut officer, said he expect the compani cellular properti to be profit by the end of 1989.in new telephon lines, southwestern bell had it best quarter perform sinc 1985.new telephon line quadrupled.th compani ad 114,866 new line in the third quarter, up 88,866 from 26,000 a year earlier. 
 the compani said overal expens in the quarter jump 16% to $2.69 billion from $2.31 billion a year earlier.non-telephon oper and growth in new telephon line help revenu surg 11% to $3.46 billion from $3.11 billion a year earlier. 
 those revenu increas 45% to $757.6 million from $524.1 million, while revenu from long distanc call made within the same area code rose 8% to $427.1 million from $394.6 million.new telephon line continu to grow at a clip of 4.5% annually.th compani ad 216,000 new telephon line in the third quarter for a total of 16.3 million.so far this year, the compani has ad 537,000 lines. 
 profit for five telecommun concern rose in the third quarter, general reflect increas in new custom lines. 
 basic telephon busi revenu increas 2% to $2.47 billion from $2.42 billion, while non-telephon oper revenu slump 17% to $137.3 million, compar with $165.2 million.in the busi segment, new telephon line increas by 7.1% and call volume, reflect in minut of use, rose 11.5%.bell atlant instal 105,000 new telephon lines, both busi and residential, for an increas of 3.2% and a total of $16.3 million. 
 pacif telesi net benefit from gain in it cellular and page business, increas local long-dist use, and new telephon lines.minut of use for local long-dist call jump 8.9%, profit in the cellular and page busi surg 73%, and new telephon line grew 4.2%. 
 revenu from basic telephon servic increas 2.7% to $805 million, while revenu from long distanc call made in the same area code climb 4.6% to $581 million.pacif telesi instal 207,000 new custom lines, a 4.2% increase, for a total of 12.95 million access lines. 
 local servic revenu was flat at about $1.41 billion, compar with $1.40 billion in the year-ago quarter.new custom line grew 3.5% in the third quarter.nynex, base in new york, instal 194,000 access line for a total of $14.8 million. 
 access charg revenu rose 6.7% to $676.3 million from $633.9 million. u s west, base in denver, also had increas in minutes-of-us and new telephon lines.minutes-of-us rose 8.2% to 8.5 million from 7.87 million, while new custom telephon line increas 2.3% to 11.8 million, signal chang in the economy. 
 but, he adds, support cost are high.custom who buy the upgrad averag two call apiec to the compani help lines, the same number as for new customers. 
 that, in turn, should continu to cut the cost of the machin and expand their market.sharp electron corp. and ricoh corp. recent announc fax that use normal paper, rather than the roll of chemic treated, heat-sensit paper most fax use to reproduc document from signal transmit over telephon lines. 
 miss perhap 300 or more of their local pilot fish to follow them and magnifi their trade power, the wall street hous will eventu be ground down by even moder portfolio insur selling, serfl realizes."h still has the german client on the line. 
 they are here," mrs. guba answered.on the tape record of mrs. guba call to the 911 emerg line, play at the trial, the babi sitter is heard beg for an ambulance. 
 local bill for resid and small busi will show an fcc-order 60-cents-a-month increas in charg by local compani begin in december.th so-cal subscrib line charge, current $2.60 a month, reflect part of the cost of connect long-dist compani with local companies. 
 resid averag $15 a month in long-dist charges, accord to jack grubman of painewebb inc.th subscrib line charg is schedul to increas 30 cent in april for resid and small businesses. 
 the feder communic commiss restrict the abil of local telephon compani to charg high price for privat telephon line use in communic networks. 
 in fact, one of the quickest post-crash reform was to instal special phone link between new york, chicago and washington market overseers.thi arrangement, which the big board call the "hoot and holler" line, is meant to make sure that in a crisis, market can be in instant contact without the risk of busi signal or switchboard snafus. 
 record show, for example, that three top soviet laser scientist had access to classifi area of lawrenc livermor nation laboratory, even though they were author to visit onli unclassifi areas, the gao said.in anoth case, an isra scientist bar from classifi area gain access to the laboratori supercomput through the telephon line of a worker at whose home he was staying, the gao said. 
 local phone compani will be restrict by the fcc in charg high price for privat telephon line use in communic networks. 
 caller seem baffl by the change.when investor now get a live voic on the line, say steven norwitz, a vice presid for t. row price associ inc., baltimore, "they'll be saying, what happen to my yield?'" 
 the philadelphia-bas telecommun concern also said it hope this will lead to more contract work as the dutch govern proceed with long-rang plan to modern it telephon system.th dutch network has about six million telephon access lines, make it slight larger than new jersey network, which also serv a dens popul area. 
 however, continu cutback in personnel could further irrit some already-frustr investors.mario maltese, a fidel fund sharehold and the chairman of an audio-visual-system compani in mineola, n.y., say clog line recent caus him to quit seek help from fidel phone repres dure the day. 
 "the alleg are not true and we intend to defend ourselv vigorously."th suits, file in u.s. district court for the southern district of ohio, stem from claim by two fire cincinnati bell employees, who told local newspap that they had been order to illeg tap the telephon line of more than 1,000 cincinnati area residents. 
 the onli reason the former employe report gave for tap the phone was for nation secur concerns.thre of the residents, whose line were alleg tapped, file the suits. 
 in addit to the knight-ridder-tribun and scripps-howard wires, the other major news wire oper by newspap are the new york time news service, and los angel times/washington post news service.ov telephon lines, each servic transmit news stori and featur to subscrib newspapers. 
 "if you can buy and sell with a person computer, you can't be put on hold," say william coppel, a quick & reilli market executive.but michael gianturco, author of "the stock market investor comput guide," note that comput use telephon line to communic with the broker electron systems.and when the telephon line are jammed, he says, a computer trader won't be abl to get through ani better than anyon els tri desper to call a broker, he says. 
 by conserv estimates, at least $20 billion is held in account outsid the country.bank with comfort offic overlook crumbl bueno air street are alway on the line to switzerland. 
 martin l. quinn, the presid of a small market firm in seal beach, calif., say he is tire of broker interrupt his dinner or leav urgent messag on his answer machine."i know it a salesman when they ask, how are you?'" say mr. quinn, who stay on the line onli long enough to hear a brokerag firm name. 
 insid a dark tent, kayitan kavas, a counti commissioner, shout into a telephon for more help.on the other end of the line, a voic promis 8,400 more blankets. 
 he want to discuss a cabinet appoint with vice presid georg bush, and, think mr. bush was nearby, ask the switchboard to get him.soon, the vice presid was on the line. 
 by comparison, it is usual pretti easi to track down white hous and administr aides.top staffer have direct telephon line to the white hous instal in their homes. 
 "that was my fault," say a chasten mr. griscom.gener of white hous aid confess an attach to the disembodi voic on the other end of the telephon line -- voic that, among other small favors, give wake-up call to staffer go on trips. 
 mr. mcpherson and arm negoti paul warnk both rememb what happen when presid johnson tri to reach mr. warnk to offer him a pentagon promotion.th presid talk for five minut befor realiz that the man on the other end of the line was john carl warnecke, the architect. 
 mr. duggan, the former lbj aide, onc ask the switchboard to find a long-lost girlfriend in new york."forty-f minut later, they had her on the line," he recalls. 
 but now, even the libertin french are crack down.french entrepreneur dish out pretti much the same fare that their u.s. counterpart provide: "gab" line that dozen of peopl can dial to convers in languag as off-color as strike their fancy; privat line for one-on-on dirti talking; and prerecord sex chatter. 
 the french also offer someth not avail in the u.s. -- the pink minitel, which allow custom to send dirti messag to one anoth through video terminals, call minitels, that are attach to million of french phones.a in the u.s., the gab line have been a big money-maker. 
 but, wherea in the u.s. they are extrem difficult to regulate, in franc they are be banned.fr telecom, the nation telecommun authority, announc last month it will abolish the gab line as of october."w realiz that everi one of the chat line was pink {pornographic}," say a franc telecom official. 
 he brush asid protest from pink-telephon servic that the action restrict free speech."ther isn't ani law that say we have to provid chat lines," the offici says.h estim that the gab line were bring their oper at least 100 million french franc ($15.6 million) a year.despit the ban, french offici say their crackdown on other form of dial-a-porn is limit by the same legal void that exist in the u.s. noth in french law restrict what two individu can say over a telephon line.unless somebodi involv can be judg guilti of "incit debauchery," the onli way to prevent pornograph servic is to close down an entir categori of them -- as franc has done with the gab lines. 
 the new system has alreadi irk power senators.earli this year, they discov that they couldn't get more than one person on the line at the same time when senat leader call presid reagan to tell him that the histor intermedi nuclear forc treati had been approved. 
 someon identifi himself as a secur offic phone the newsroom say he intend to kill the editor.obscen shout often burst on the line in the middl of phone calls. 
 but news of the trade had fan flood the phone circuit at the king box offic here, hungri for season tickets.meanwhil in edmonton, the line were jam with disgruntl fan steam over the defect of their star player. 
 the bill are actual quit similar.both would requir airlin to report far more perform data than they do now and to set up toll-fre complaint lines. 
 chanc are, the hotel oper will just let the phone in the empti room ring and ring.eventually, the oper may pick up the line, but mani don't, forc peopl to call back. 
 "if there a loophol in your tariff you can leav it to this compani to find it -- quickly," say rose llauget, an execut at gte florida inc., which run the tampa-area phone service.megaquest, meanwhile, argu that phone compani are keeper of a public utility, and shouldn't be allow to censor what goe out over the lines. 
 they can also choos from a varieti of tape by push a number on the phone. ("press 1 for the sexiest love kitten in new york. . . .for the pain and humili you deserve, you gotta push 6. . . .") or caller can choos a one-on-on line like the c-line, which recent end it run in houston amid grow public pressure. 
 megaquest is also a big player in the clean side of the dial-it market, such as tape jokes.but it biggest busi is in the industri hottest and most controversi new area: the "gab" line, a servic that dozen of peopl can dial at onc to talk to one another.gab line bring in about 70% of megaquest revenue.about three-fourth of all the 400-odd gab line in the u.s. today are megaquest's, mr. eisenberg says. 
 they are easili the most slipperi dial-it servic to regulate.cal on a gab line are just talk to one anoth on the telephone, someth the phone compani and the govern can't veri well prohibit.megaquest love to talk about the support gab line offer the shi and the lonely, as it did in a recent case in alabama."mani peopl in birmingham are shut-ins, peopl who becaus of a handicap, ill or old age, cannot get out of their home frequently," the compani argu in a file befor the alabama public servic commission, after south central bell tri to stop bill for it lines. 
 "through group conferencing, these peopl can interact with other member of the community."ms. superfon say a sooth megaquest oper on a fresno, calif., gab line onc talk a derang vietnam veteran out of kill himself.actually, it hard to imagin the age or the suicid get much comfort from mani of megaquest gab lines. 
 "welcom to the onli x-rat parti line in town!" blare a tape that caller hear on one line befor the gab begins."for a steami sexual encount you'll never forget, call . . . !" anoth gab line call itself "the hot centerfold line" and refer caller to anoth number where they can "teach an inexperienc ladi about the bird and the bees!" 
 like other gab-lin proprietors, megaquest hire oper to monitor callers.that is ostens to keep disrupt peopl off the lines, and to enforc the ground rule of it special teen service: no caller over 17, no curs and no talk about drug or sex. 
 not surprisingly, the rule are loos enforced.on one recent afternoon on the new york teen line, a caller could hear toni and robert scream obscen at each other in an argument about their virility. 
 one import role monitor play is to juic up convers whenev they lag.th monitor on megaquest bisexu line recent got the convers roll by discuss the relat merit of differ gender combinations. 
 anoth job for the monitor is steer custom to megaquest out-and-out porn services.on wall poster in the new york offic list a special number and adds: "the most import line! 
 that a number megaquest use for various extra-pricey, hard-cor porn services.thi side of the gab line is one you won't learn about in megaquest file with the public-servic commission. 
 to a lot of parents, what megaquest doe is turn their telephon into raunchy, high-pric jukeboxes.cincinnati bell start run gab line last year and was stun to see custom complaint double. 
 but lawmak and the industri are find that write dial-it regul that stand up to scrutini is as hard as nail jell-o to the wall.phon companies, as regul common carriers, can't alway simpli stop do busi with line they deem offensive.southwestern bell tri to quit bill for gab line by argu that the state rule author it dial-it servic cover tape messages, not live talk. 
 "sex sells," he says.th public firestorm has made him a littl hesit about launch expens new x-rat lines. 
 busi at southwestern bell corp. near hit rock bottom last year.oper in the depress oil patch of oklahoma and texa and the hardscrabbl farm state of arkansas, kansa and missouri, the compani post it poorest telephone-lin growth sinc the great depression: fewer than 8,200 new residenti line and an actual reduct of busi lines. 
 so far, the techniqu is working.sinc january, southwestern bell has sold about 16,000 new line to current busi custom by introduc them to various featur of integr servic digit network, such as "inspect," which display the name and telephon number of the parti calling. 
 sinc january, southwestern bell has sold about 16,000 new line to current busi custom by introduc them to various featur of integr servic digit network, such as "inspect," which display the name and telephon number of the parti calling.impress by what they learn in the lab, tenneco inc., shell oil co. and minnesota mine & manufactur co. each bought more than 3,000 new lines.for instance, the laboratori experi help houston-bas tenneco to decid to buy 3,900 more line for an advanc network that integr voic and data traffic. 
 the direct must be design as care as the product itself, more compani are finding.for instance, prodigi servic co., a joint ventur of intern busi machin corp. and sears, roebuck & co., work for three year to develop it system for shop and retriev inform from a home comput over telephon lines. 
 twelv air-traff "flow control" center in europ coordin these crisis-control action by telex or telephone.flowcontrol unit in london, paris, madrid, rome and frankfurt, west germany, soon will be link with special teleconfer circuit so they won't have to reli on telephon lines, which often are busy. 
 he say further that he hasn't been paid for some of his work.th west palm beach and new york telephon line of millionair publisher, dougla lambert, have been disconnected. . . . 
 san francisco-bas pacif telesi said a robust california economy, streamlin oper and curb on expens were the key factor for it profit gain.busi and residenti line increas 4% to 12.7 million, up 488,000 from a year ago. 
 the compani cincinnati bell inform system unit contribut $38.2 million to revenu in the quarter and $73.8 million in the six months.th cincinnati-bas telecommun concern said it ad about 8,234 new line in the quarter, boost the total to about 755,000. 
 philadelphia-bas bell atlant said it second-quart earn increas was bolster primarili by econom expans in the mid-atlant region.for instance, busi telephon line jump 6.8% to five million from 4.7 million.th total number of new line grew 3.4% to 16.2 million, compar with 15.7 million a year ago. 
 nynex said telephon oper remain strong.th compani said it ad more than 479,000 telephon line in the quarter, boost the total to 14.6 million. 
 region long-dist revenu increas 13% to $345.3 million from $305.2 million.new telephon line grew 2.5% to 11.7 million from 11.4 million. 
 the new york state public employe feder in albani win three pilot evening-shift day-car center in a yet-to-be-ratifi pact.latchkey kid place so mani call to whirlpool corp. consum inform line appeal for help with applianc that the compani conduct a survey, which found big use of applianc among school-ag kid home alone. 
 two region bell telecommun concern post higher second-quart earnings, bolster primarili by strong growth of telephon access lines, while a third bell compani report a decrease. 
 earn for chicago-bas ameritech soared, aid primarili by strong growth in telephon and cellular line and a one-tim gain from the sale of canadian cellular operations. 
 the compani post a $42.1 million gain from the sale of it 17% interest in cantel, a canadian cellular company.busi and residenti telephon line increas 2.4% to 15.2 million, up 354,000 from a year ago.cellular-mobil line grew 58% to more than 100,000. 
 total oper expens increas 15% in the quarter, primarili becaus of cost relat to the elimin of silver page oper and increas telephon compani expenditures.th compani said more than 83,000 telephon access line were ad in the 1988 second quarter, compar with onli 5,000 for the like period last year. 
 bellsouth, base in atlanta, said earn rose becaus of increas in new custom line and toll usage. 
 revenu climb 6.3% to $3.21 billion from $3.02 billion.th compani said it ad more than 133,500 access line in it nine-st territory, boost the total to about 16 million. 
 so the compani southern bell unit in atlanta and it south central bell unit in new orlean have been instal hundr of mile of fiber optic cable; prepar link from insid the convent center to satellit relay truck that will be park outside; instal public phone with special jack to accommod data transmiss on laptop computers; and put in new cell to handl the hundr of cellular phone that mani news organ plan to bring.southern bell has been furious instal about 3,600 line at the world congress center in atlanta for the democrat convent start today. 
 call on one line is a campaign aid deep into negoti with the jess jackson campaign over the rule for the 1992 presidenti election.on anoth line is robert strauss, the former democrat chairman. 
 after his success in advertising, mr. ezo look to diversify.when recruit began rent communic line to tie it nationwid comput together, it discov it could sell time on those lines. 
 john e. hulse, vice chairman and chief financi officer, predict that network usag for the pacif bell and nevada bell unit will increas about 7% to 10% this year.h said the number of new custom line is expect to grow about 3% to 5%.in 1987, the two telephon oper combin had $2.14 billion in network-usag revenu and they ad about 462,000 custom lines, a 3.8% gain. 
 currently, new york-bas at&t leas more convent consum phone at $2.70 to $8.85 a month.th telecommun compani ad it will begin leas three other special models, includ one with two lines, in august. 
 in the past week, he also has field call from report around the world.last friday, an associ of new york televis person geraldo rivera was on the line, ask mr. finckl to appear as his talk-show guest. 
 an even tougher problem is the distress economi of the compani region servic territory, hit hard by the energi slump and the drought.last year, the compani core telephon busi ad onli 8,100 new access lines, the poorest annual growth volum sinc the great depression. 
 the u.s. will maintain diplomat relat with haiti militari govern follow a coup monday that return militari leader namphi to power after four month of civilian rule, the state depart said.schools, market and busi in port-au-princ were reopened, and intern telephon line were restored. 
 the inform age has been put on hold.bi now, consum nationwid could have been take advantag of all kind of special servic through their telephon line -- check airlin schedul or basebal scores, track price of their favorit stocks, arrang to watch pay-for-view movi on their tv sets. 
 the declin in first-quart profit reflect a shift in northern canadian product to less profit wire and cabl product dure a four-week strike in march at it main canadian plant in bramalea, ontario, where telephon switch are produced.central-offic switches, which account for 53% of northern revenu last year, are use by telephon compani to rout voic and data communic over telephon lines.mr. fitzgerald said he expect that sale of switches, as measur by new telephon lines, "are go to flatten out" dure the next few years, and that increas competit in north america will continu to drive down prices. 
 the five-year, profit-shar ventur will provid u.s. news organizations, busi and other user with direct telephon communic and digit transmiss of data, photo and other inform to and from the soviet union.on 11 dedic telephon communic line current exist between the two countries, compani offici said. 
 her question: how can she rais a child on a $1.75 refund check?then there is the girl who ran up a $600 telephon bill dial toll-cal parti lines. 
 advanc micro devic inc., sunnyvale, calif., and siemen ag of west germani said they agre to joint develop, manufactur and market microchip for data communic and telecommun with an emphasi on the integr servic digit network.th integr servic digit network, or isdn, is an intern standard use to transmit voice, data, graphic and video imag over telephon lines. 
 atlanta-bas bellsouth recent gave the parti line a new function and renam it ring master. atlanta-bas bellsouth recent gave the parti line a new function and renam it ring master.th servic allow a residenti custom to have as mani as three telephon number fed into the home through the exist singl telephon line. 
 and, as in the good old days, peopl will be abl to listen in on convers from other extens -- but onli within the same household.whil ani one of the line is in use, neither incom nor outgo call can be made on the other extens that are part of the service.r master cost about $4 a month for one addit number, and bellsouth will promot it as an inexpens altern to separ lines, for which the month fee total $12 to $20, depend on geograph location. 
 dial-a-porn has been a point of content for sever years.anti-pornographi group and parent have fought vigor to keep sexual explicit messag off the telephon line becaus children could easili call the services. 
 execut instal high-tech equip in hous to eas take-hom chores.bert robert jr., presid of mci communic corp., has two computers, three telephon line and a copi machin to handl the work he bring home at night and on weekends. 
 japan want to block competit foreign technolog from a lucrat telecommun market, u.s. trade negoti said.th negoti said they learn in trade talk with the japanes this week that japan ministri of post and telecommun want to limit technolog use in value-ad networks, or van -- servic that allow comput to communic with one anoth over telephon lines. 
 that busi is far and away the compani fastest-grow and most profit segment.th inform line, which includ everyth from refer book such as who who to trade guid for lawyer and health-car professionals, has grown to $229 million in sale in 1987 from $146 million in 1985. 
 one of nasdaq technolog innov -- it trans-pacif link with singapor -- went on the blink, and some trader half-jok grous that volum might have been slight stronger otherwise.nasdaq said the link with sesdaq (stock exchang of singapor deal and autom quotat system) was suspend yesterday morn becaus of line problem in the u.s. introduc in march, the link allow nasdaq and sesdaq to exchang quot on about 35 nasdaq secur trade in both markets. 
 for kodak, the trade-in alreadi has been a cost public relat headache.it has spent an estim $17 million, much of it for a toll-fre line it has kept open for two year and for a varieti of earli notic it sent to camera holders. 
 precis term weren't disclosed.lakewood, which serv 1,275 access line in a 25-square-mil territori in eastern pennsylvania, had revenu last year of about $750,000.lakewood will becom the fifth pennsylvania telephon compani purchas by rochester, n.y.-bas rochest telephone, give it a total of 26,000 access line serv throughout the state. 
 sinc then, they have amend their misguid messag and bombard the market with new advertisements.now, at the end of each commercial, pacif telesi tell viewers, "we'r in the busi to move inform and keep it move over telephon lines, over cellular systems, over comput network we design." 
 the technolog exist so that the dial-a-someth servic -- dial-a-porn, dial-a-preacher, dial-an-oddsmak -- can be regul by the phone compani or by the phone owner.with some technology, a phone compani could simpli block a resid line at his request so that no one could make those dial-it number from his house. 
 almost all would agre that kid shouldn't be run up phone bill by dial dirti talkers; it bad for the parent wallet and probabl bad for the child mind.but the argument can't be made that adult shouldn't be abl to call these smut line if they want to. 
 pacif telesi group said it first-quart earn surged, bolster primarili by the strong california economy, streamlin oper and it earli retir program.san francisco-bas pacif telesi said access line increas 3.7% to 12.6 million and local-long distanc volum jump 9.3% to 684 million. 
 the communic compani also built a small call-switch room in home shop build and beef up part of it own network to handl the addit traffic.from mci lines, traffic is switch to a rockwel intern corp. automat call distributor; the system also use unisi corp. order equipment. 
 collect calls: two-third of the major compani survey by recruit korn/ferri intern say they pay outsid director an averag of $712 for each telephon confer in which they participate.and the vast major get the full fee no matter how long they'r on the line. 
 the plaintiff, unit missouri bank of kansa city, alleg that kemper mismanag $8 million in pension fund right befor the market debacl in october.in general, some holder of stock fund complain after the crash that they couldn't get through clog telephon line or that fund compani fail to honor their redempt request in a time fashion. 
 southwestern bell provid telephon servic to the hard-hit oil state of oklahoma and texas, as well as to arkansas, kansa and missouri, which have felt some of the econom pressur of the farm belt.last year the compani gain onli 8,100 new telephon lines, the worst year for growth sinc the great depression. 
 annual revenu of general interest dial-up servic total about $186 million, estim inform industri bulletin, a stamford, conn., industri newsletter.that compar with dial-a-porn revenu of $54 million and revenu of about $90 million from so-cal gab lines, where custom call up and chat with other who are on the line.gab line have a reput onli slight better than dial-a-porn among some parent becaus teen-ag run up steep phone bill talk for hours. 
 independ of congress, sever local phone compani alreadi are introduc plan to block call to porn and gab line becaus of complaint by subscribers.bel atlant corp. plan to block all porn and gab line in pennsylvania and maryland.custom there that want to dial these servic would have to write the phone compani to unblock the lines. 
 some democrat lawmak want to make these plan mandatori -- and free.accord to sever plan under consideration, phone compani would be requir to assign differ phone number exchang to dial-a-porn services, gab line and general dial-up services. 
 behind a glass window sit the moderator.h is about to get a report from washington when the telephon line dies. 
 there was no response.later, when we phone again, the line was disconnected." 
 telephon line are about to get busier. 
 "am i the toughest guy you know?"th friend on the other end of the line can be heard saying, "you'r tough all right. 
 some of mr. abboud advis had alreadi left for houston to begin pore over first citi books, but the bank concern chairman and president, daniel c. arnold, was on the phone and was balking. on anoth line was first citi invest banker, goldman sach & co. on the third line, advis to mr. abboud.and on the fourth line, offici from the fdic. 
 merril lynch declin to comment.most of those affect by fidel latest layoff work on the invest group toll-fre telephon lines, in back-offic process job and in fidel discount brokerage. 
 the party-lin effect could defeat that.offici of telact say if line get jam there is a built-in queu function to call a custom to the phone when it his or her turn to shop. 
 there, he work at a formica desk stack high with newspap and mail in an open new york newsroom with a dozen other people.h has two phone that seldom stop ringing, plus a line for his best sourc -- a network of traders, raider and sundri other tipsters. 
 but he doesn't apolog for the idea, becaus zapmail was an effort to address a real and continu problem.facsimil machines, which transmit document over telephon lines, are eat into feder overnight business. 
 at&t later develop a form of pictur phone for busi meetings, but it was too cumbersom and cost for consumers.now mitsubishi electr corp. of japan has begun sell visitel, a telephon accessori that use a built-in camera to send still pictur over ordinari lines.th user sit in front of the camera, frame a pictur on a small video screen, and press a button to send it, about five or six second later, to the visitel on the other end of the line. 
 meanwhile, expens climb 12.2% to $2.49 billion from $2.22 billion.th compani said more than 185,000 new access line were ad in it nine-st territory, boost the total to more than 15.9 million. 
 philadelphia-bas bell atlant earn increas as intrast toll use grew 11.2% and interst access volum climb almost 13%.the compani said total access line grew 3.5% to 16.1 million. 
 if a product trigger a flood of calls, she can soften her present or spread it out a few more minutes."we'v even had situat where we'v told the audience, don't call now becaus the line will be busi for a while, " say jerri troupe, execut assist to home shop network inc. chairman, roy speer. 
 toward that end, mr. gibb has increas by 21% to 253 the number of so-cal problem-resolut offic and their assistants, who interven in taxpay disput with the agency.h has hire more clerk to handl telephon inquiries, increas the number of incom telephon lines, and expand the hour the public can call for assistance. 
 ameritech outlook is base on expect for steadi econom growth in the midwest-great lake region, a dens popul and general stabl area.mr. springer predict that combin network usag for ameritech five bell oper compani will increas this year "in the upper end of the 4% to 8% range" and the number of custom line will grow by "better than 1-plus per cent."in 1987, total network access usag grew about 10.5% and ameritech ad about 340,000 custom lines, a 2.3% gain. 
 most dial-up servic charg about 50 cent a minute, but dial-a-porn messag can run a few dollar for the first minute.independ of congress, sever local phone compani alreadi are introduc plan to block call to porn and gab line becaus of complaint by subscribers. bell atlant corp. plan to block all porn and gab line in pennsylvania and maryland. custom there that want to dial these servic would have to write the phone compani to unblock the lines.pacif bell, a unit of pacif telesi group, let consum block call for free to all 976 dial-up services, and soon plan to give consum the option of just block call to adult messag or gab lines. 
 so far 450,000 subscrib have sign up for the 976 block service.new york telephone, a part of nynex corp., plan to offer -- for a one-tim charg of $5 -- call block to dial-a-porn and chat lines. 
 previously, the fed lack the effect of the west german bundesbank or bank of japan, they add.a currenc dealer at a new york bank with a direct line to the fed say that previously, "when the fed would come in, the dollar would almost alway go against them. 
 by contrast, bellsouth corp., which oper in the robust sun belt, ad more than 650,000 new line last year.in 1988, with the health of it servic territori show slight sign of improvement, southwestern bell expect telephon line to increas about 1%, which would repres about 100,000 new lines. 
 met with outrage, the plan was hastili abandoned.oth innovations, such as bank at home via person comput and telephon lines, have been pain slow to catch on. 
 analyst said the two-year contract probabl make the swedish telecommun group the lead supplier of telecommun equip to china.ericsson alreadi has instal or taken order for about 442,000 line in china, and has a few smaller order to suppli switch equipment. 
 term weren't disclosed.telefonica nacion had oper revenu equival to $5.3 billion last year; it has 10 million line in service, with 15 million telephon in use, make spain system the ninth-largest in the world. 
 the program was prove so popular that h&r block appar couldn't keep up with prepar all the returns.consequently, the spokesman at the kansa city, mo.-bas compani said, comput capac has been increas 50%, more telephon line have been ad and addit worker hire to handl the backlog of custom seek to file electronically. 
 instead of hire teller and account offic to take deposit in the office, they advertis deposit rate in region newspapers.custom call on toll-fre telephon line and conduct transact by mail, by wire or through an automated-tel network share with other banks. 
 mr. allbach say he is begin to suspect that kodak instig the suit, hope everyon will pitch their cameras.kodak deni that and say the delay is cost it a bundl in legal expenses, not to mention the cost of maintain an 800 telephon line for instant camera owners. 
 separately, a feder appeal court in new york dealt the dial-a-porn busi anoth setback, affirm long-contest regul that make it harder to dial raunchi phone tapes.th two develop are the latest shot in a bitter battl over dial-a-porn, which is becom widespread both on at&t and local phone-compani lines. 
 telephon were busier than usual at fidel invest over the weekend -- but far less busi than the weekend that preced octob black monday.fidelity, the nation largest mutual-fund group, estim that it receiv about 45,000 call -- 28% more than usual -- on it 24-hour custom servic line dure the weekend in the wake of friday 140.58-point drop in the dow jone industri average. 
 find him becam an obsess for mr. stoll.h made a midnight requisit of all the printer he could lay hand on so that he could monitor all the telephon line come into the lab computers.aft discov that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitim user name joe sventek, he rig up an alarm system, includ a portabl beeper, to alert him when sventek came on the line. 
 current a $300 million-a-year business, 900 telephon servic is expect to hit $500 million next year and near $2 billion by 1992 as use for the servic continu to expand, say joel gross of donaldson, lufkin & jenrett inc.th servic -- which cost the caller from 30 cent to $25 a minut -- current is domin by celebr chatter, horoscop and romanc lines. 
 richard breeden hadn't notic that his new desk had just four telephon line and one phone. 
 it was, after all, onli his second full day as chairman of the secur and exchang commission. but the lack of line becam pain apparent.a the stock market lurch into a 190-point free fall on oct. 13, mr. breeden found himself scurri around the sixth floor of the sec -- from his desk, where the new york stock exchang was on an open line, to his assist office, where the commod futur trade commiss was connected, to a third room, where a comput monitor market moves. 
 it won't happen again.now there are more line connect to the chairman office, and the market-monitor comput has been move next to his desk. 
 rochest will exchang share of it common stock for all share outstand of viroqua telephone, a family-own company.viroqua serv about 3,000 access line in western wisconsin. 
 place a phone order through most ani catalog and chanc are the clerk who answer won't be the onli one on the line. 
 meanwhile, support of the dellum two-parti consent bill say it is need becaus of a giant loophol in the one-parti consent law.currently, if the person tape is a parti to the conversation, it all right to record without the knowledg of the other person on the line. (intercept other peopl privat convers is illeg and punish by five year in prison and fine of $10,000.) 
 overal they increas 2.8% to 12.1 million, put u s west over the 12 million mark for the first time.busi line increas 3.7% to 3.3 million. 
 the three-month-old strike at nynex serious hurt the instal of new telephon line in the quarter.nynex said access line in servic at the end of the quarter were off 18,000 from the previous quarter, which report an increas of 160,000 new access lines. 
 meanwhile, the fema announc a toll-fre telephon number (800-462-9029) to expedit servic to victim of the earthquake.lin will be avail 24 hour a day to take applic for such disast relief as temporari hous and emerg home repair by phone. 
 contel corp. said third-quart net incom increas 16% to $72 million, or 45 cent a share, from $62 million, or 39 cent a share, as a result of strong growth in telephone-access line and long-dist minut of use. 
 inform system post a loss of $8 million, compar with a loss of $9 million a year earlier.customer-access line increas at an annual rate of about 4% and minut of long-dist use rose about 12%. 
 revenu rose 8.8% to $4.35 billion from $4.0 billion.th compani said the quarter includ a 10% increas in local-exchang usag for long-dist call and a 5% increas in the number of access line in service. 
 chairman zane e. barn said southwestern bell "busi are healthi and are continu to grow."th compani report a 3.1% increas in the number of access line in service, and also said it southwestern bell mobil system unit ad 30,000 new customers, with a current total of about 333,000. 
 in composit trade on the new york stock exchange, cincinnati bell fell 25 cent to $29.the compani said that the number of access line drop slight in the quarter, a declin attribut to season fluctuations.for the year, however, access line in servic have increas 5.5%. 
 although two babi bell show strong growth in access lines, usag and unregul busi revenue, one report a modest gain in third-quart net while the other post a small drop. 
 bellsouthat bellsouth, base in atlanta, custom access line grew by 162,000, or 3.5%, dure the 12-month period end sept. 30. 
 in addition, earn were reduc by rate reduct in florida, kentucky, alabama, tennesse and louisiana.ameritech at ameritech, base in chicago, custom access line increas by 402,000, or 2.6%, and cellular mobil line increas by 80,000, or 62.3%, for the 12-month period end sept. 30. 
 the use of 900 toll number has been expand rapid in recent years.for a while, high-cost pornographi line and servic that tempt children to dial (and redial) movi or music inform earn the servic a somewhat sleazi image, but new legal restrict are aim at trim excesses. 
 kurt sanger, abc sport market director, say that now "ten of thousands" of fan call it 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return, quarterback sack, etc.profit from the call goe to charity, but abc sport also use the call as a sale tool: after thank caller for voting, frank gifford offer a footbal videotap for $19.95, and 5% of caller stay on the line to order it. 
 jacket may be sold next.meanwhile, nbc sport recent began "score plus," a year-round, 24-hour 900 line provid a complex array of scores, analysi and fan news. 
 viewer can call a 900 number for addit advice, which will be tailor to their need base on the number they punch ("press one if you'r pregnant," etc.).if the caller stay on the line and leav a name and address for the sponsor, coupon and a newslett will be mailed, and the sponsor will be abl to gather a list of desir potenti customers. 
 the biggest flurri of investor activ came earli in the day.vanguard group inc. saw heavi exchang from stock fund into money market fund after the telephon line open at 8:30 a.m. 
 but analyst say that on short flights, if mani passeng pick up their phone at once, the wait for a dial tone could be longer than the flight.an america west airlin spokeswoman concedes, "you might have to wait three to five minut to get a line." 
 the new york plan froze basic rates, offer no protect to nynex against an econom downturn that sharpli cut demand and didn't offer flexibl pricing.in contrast, the california economi is booming, with 4.5% access line growth in the past year. 
 communic would be even wors in the old downtown section of the city, where gen. noriega maintain his militari headquart complex.cia offici hadn't provid maj. giroldi or his alli with ani mean to communic with the southern command, nor did they arrang to keep a telephon line open to gen. noriega headquarters. 
 so, after rebel appar had seiz the building, sever u.s. offici attempt in vain to contact them by phone to determin what had becom of gen. noriega.som of their outgo call were interrupt by their own switchboard operators, who chastis the offici for use line they had been order to keep free. 
 st. croix telephon would be the fourth telephon concern in wisconsin -- and the tenth in the midwest -- acquir by rochest telephon in the past year.st. croix telephon serv 5,300 access line near minneapolis.rochest telephon serv 575,000 access lines, primarili in western-centr new york. 
 "consolid expens will be higher than anticip as a result of certain nonrecur expenses, includ legal fees," the compani said, ad also that revenu has been below it projections.in the past year, rochest telephone, which serv more than 570,000 lines, main in western-centr new york, has acquir or announc agreement to acquir nine midwestern telephon compani -- five in illinois, three in wisconsin and one in indiana. 
 ebaugh, the show creator."earthbeat's" activ will be reflect in it use of telephon line to record viewer opinion on issu and perhap invit them to add their name to "electron petitions" to be sent to politician or corporations. 
 for instance, the technolog isn't sophist enough to recogn unusu accents.moreover, some peopl still don't like talk to a machine, forc them to stay on the line until a human oper eventu pick up the call. 
 it 10 million peopl are burden with an $18 billion debt, stuck with a defunct infrastructur and a technolog untrain work force.in budapest offices, secretari often work in group to make a singl call on one of the countri huge, pea-green telephon "machines," which have plenti of lever and flash light but a poor record of find a free line. 
 now, field repres drop by each store everi few days, clipboard in hand, to evalu customer-ori operations.also, to make sure that custom have a direct line to the company, burger king is instal a toll-fre phone number for consum feedback. 
 barri k. davis, the founder of trader & investor alert, a telephon stock-tip line, is expect to disassoci himself from the servic within a few weeks. 
 it declin to disclos the number of share involved.mt. pulaski telephone, which would be rochest telephon fifth illinoi telephon concern, serv about 1,800 line in central illinois. 
 despit the name, mt. pulaski no longer has electr customers, rochest said.rochest telephone, which serv more than 570,000 lines, main in western-centr new york state, has acquir or announc agreement to acquir eight midwestern telephon compani this year -- five in illinois, two in wisconsin and one in indiana. 
 a previous increas occur last may, when the san francisco aid foundat issu a strong plea for peopl to consid earli test and treatment.in new york citi last week, "eight to 14 telephon line were ring at once, in contrast to the usual four to five," said susan rosenthal, director of aid counsel and test for seven citi test sites. 
 pacif telecom, vancouver, wash., also has agre to retain for five year all current employe of the citi telephon compani and to refrain from request new rate increas in that period.in april, anchorag request bid on it telephon system, set a minimum price of $400 million for it 115,000 lines. 
 secur regul are investig a new jersey-bas telephon tip line that has been get attent for it blend of "inside" wall street research, gossip and invest advice.th tip line, trader & investor alert, base in fort lee, n.j., is run by a 46-year-old former insur broker and publicist, barri k. davis, who has run afoul of regul in the past. 
 critic say it could be a vehicl for stock manipulators.oddly, mani of the peopl that seem to be call the tip line are wall street brokers, hungri for stock tip they say aren't avail from their own research departments. 
 "we have put trader & investor on notic that they appear to be oper as an unregist invest adviser," say richard barry, supervisor of enforc with the new jersey agency.meanwhile, the sec, which is awar of the trader & investor line and the grow attent be given to it, declin to comment on whether it investigating. 
 in contrast, pacif telesi has won back mani private-lin and centrex custom sinc it gain the right to reduc rates.california boom economi help give pacif telesi the highest second-quart growth in access line among the babi bells. 
 prospect for modern jiangsu antiqu telephon system also have dimmed.th provinc popul of 61 million surpass that of france, but jiangsu phone system can handl onli 50,000 lines. 
 american express co. and american telephon & telegraph co. have form a partnership to expand in interact telephon marketing.th new company, call interactive, will use the telephon line for an array of sale and market-research services. 
 the acquisit of six other compani are pending, with complet schedul befor year end.rochest telephon expect to serv more than 600,000 access line in six state when the acquisit are completed. 
 caller are invit to play interact game with the movi characters, to enter sweepstak and, of course, to run, don't walk, to the nearest theater.tol telephon servic have most been the stuff of pornographi line and of children horror-stori and santa claus lines.but movi market hope they can use the line to entic potenti moviegoers, especi teen-ag and young adults. 
 even better from the market point of view: the call cost money, so market can break even or even turn a profit, in effect charg peopl to be subject to advertising.typ of the new servic is the indiana jone line, which cost $2.50 for a two-minut story. 
 sen. howard metzenbaum (d., ohio) has threaten to propos legisl curtail phone line advertis to children.whil the movi line say they are gear toward older teens, they are advertis on mtv and cabl station watch by younger children, too. 
 to combat the critics, interact telemedia, a los angeles-bas firm special in 900 number for the entertain business, has come up with a system to block multipl calls.it system would allow a movi line, for example, to accept onli a certain number of call from a singl phone number. 
 interact has work with paramount, lucasfilm and others, but so far hasn't use the block system."th abus has been in sex line and gab lines, and we don't have either. 
 we'v had absolut no complaints," say barclay lottimer, vice presid of sale and marketing.still, the line are far from a sure thing, and it too soon to say if they even work. 
 sinc then, paramount "star trek v" and "indiana jones" have followed, while orion "great ball of fire" has experi with a 900 number in a veri limit way. so far, though, most of the phone line have been disappointing.interact mr. lottimer, for example, say he expect to get more than one million phone call on the "star trek" and "indiana jones" lines, which his compani work on, but respons was in the "high six figures" instead. 
 "the key is to be abl to handl those calls," say ronald a. katz, presid and chief execut officer.h say his compani will be look into movi lines, as well as record promot in which, say, caller could hear a preview of a new madonna song. 
 the drawback haven't prevent film market from continu to dabble, if cautiously, in untest waters.d.l. blair is work on a 900 line to coincid with the aug. 31 video releas of "bill and ted excel adventure," a teen movi star georg carlin as a time traveler. a tv commerci plug the line will run on mtv, and a long promot spiel for the toll line will appear on the video.blair mr. ellman say the compani is also work on a 900 line to coincid with an anim christma video releas and a major featur film for next summer.still, plenti of moviemak are steer clear of the 900 number lines, wari of the sometim sleazi reput of the business. 
  some of your old henchmen at the yard do their stuff , splendid . been on the line to them on and off all day .
  in the back row sit mission control brass . alongsid kraft sit mission director georg hage , who has direct line from his consol to the white hous , the state depart and nasa washington headquart .
  contribut by mary-jo jansson van b. fox , who direct nbc live program seri , " wide , wide world , " tell about a show on america mountain : there were five locat director work in the field , and i was direct from the control center in new york . we had just come to the last three minut on the air , when sudden the produc bark a warn : " van , they'v lost the line from the next locat .
  " now that panic time , for tv cardin rule is : the program must end on time ! i punch a button open my line to joe behar , the director in colorado : " joe , we'v got to stretch .
  " hello . " but by now the line was dead .
  alvin jerk up the phone and shout " hello ! " the line was dead .
  he cross to the desk and lift the telephon . the line was dead .
  she would send philipp a telegram . help could not be had by talk into a dead line , but no one in his famili would leav a telegram unread .
  there was noth new about the boy . one of tibb fellow investig came on the line briefli ; he had made a quick check of the area where the shoot had taken place .
  " mommi , " came a veri small voic , " did you say i kill him ? " " johnni ... " she began when anoth voic cut into the line .
  then he held his breath . " mr. tibb , " the voic of maggi mcguir came tear over the line , " i'v heard from johnni ! "
  " did he say where he was , mrs. mcguir ? " a suppress sob came over the line .
  " whi , yes . the oper came on the line , like they do , and said that three minut were up and to signal when we were through .
  at last there was a respons , he listen for a moment and then pass the phone to tibb . " tom satriano is on the line , " he advis .
  what your troubl ? " on the other end of the line , in the forward torpedo room of the squalus , lt. ( j. g. ) john nichol struggl to maintain his composur .
  " there was a short paus befor oliv naquin said with quiet elat , " hello , wilki . " but just as wilkin start to respond , the sculpin rose high on an ocean swell and the line went dead .
  in his posit , i'd have had to do the same thing . " a wild laugh reach ainsli from the other end of the line . "
  that was all she was permit to say . the line went dead .
  " you hear me ? get off this line !
  don't call back . keep this line open !
  pleas , pleas don't " sudden that was all . the line die .
  " hullo , hullo . don't go away ... . hullo ... . " the line was dead .
  she diall the fire station . the line was still open there , but no one answer , not even the base radio offic .
  but by noon the voic which claim to be obolenski was back on the phone again , this time be refer to anoth dominick execut , sinc his origin contact there had gone out to lunch . by the time the call was switch , the line was dead .
  the detail came through around two in the afternoon . the voic which claim to be mr. szemzo seem to be consult at the other end of the line with someon at the bank .
  " the quot was slight over 550 per share . there was more mumbl at the other end of the line .
  sever minut went by as miss bailey held the phone . then the voic which claim to be szemzo came back on the line .
  at this point jaquith was carri on a detail oper for the slayton interest . he had a direct line to the model order room , set up for daili confirm of purchas and sale .
  mani type of busi use rent circuit to connect home offic with branch . certain offic at the unit nation complex in new york have direct line go back to govern offic in their home countri .
  she told me how much she love me , that she was count on me to keep the hui go no matter what , and that she plan to leav a littl someth for you , my son , in her will . then sudden , in the middl of a sentenc , the line went dead .
  one day i got a long-dist call from an affili station in washington . the man on the other end of the line let call him barri stump was the moder of a popular panel show .
  " right up against the door on his face , just like the first ... " brian hard young finger diall rapid and without error . somewher distant at the other end of the line a furious but control voic address him .
  " he misdial in his hast , and swore , and start over again . the sergeant voic , onli slight fur with sleep , came over the line .
  his face gave noth away as he went to the telephon ; but certain he went with alacr . " i know you told me to get in touch with the polic , " said the creami voic of alix over the line , without preambl , " but i need to confirm someth with you first .
  " veri odd , " agre alix . there was one instant of curious and specul silenc on the line .
  sergeant moon had been dispatch home for a well-earn rest and a brief look at his more regular respons , and it was detect sergeant brice who answer the telephon and hand the receiv across the tabl . " here ballist on the line , sir . "
  that is one aspect of the zeigarnik effect a procliv to rememb unfinish busi , and to forget finish busi . you have experienc this when you have look up a telephon number but found the line busi when you first call it .
  the whole goddamn system was break down . he redial the hospit matern floor on a direct line busi too !
  here he was with two phone booth and a phone to each ear the guy probabl thought he was a hors player or a booki . the answer servic came through while the hospit line was still ring busi .
  i was just go to tri to reach you . i have the husband of one of your patient on anoth line .
  with his partner on vacat he would have to grab whoever was on the matern floor and ask them to hang on until he got there . a voic came on the hospit line , crisp and businesslik .
  " hello , weaver , " he said and then to put her on the defens , " what all the gab on the hous phone ? i couldn't get an open line to you . "
  " fine , " henderson said , aimiabl . " can you get him on the line ?
  he heav himself to his feet and sat down at the desk , make the long distanc call to the wisconsin hospit emerg room . the resid who was take care of mrs. cochran was quick on the line .
  cheer . here , i'v got her on the line for you now .
  keep low by crawl across the kitchen floor , he reach up for the wall phone , place it to his ear and heard noth . the line was dead .
  i was sound asleep . i certain haven't been get ani call and just now when i grab the phone to call you , the line was dead .
  he hurri into the bedroom , put the gun back in it secret hide place and snatch up shoe , sock , shirt , and slack . back in the kitchen he took the wall phone and dial the emerg room at the hospit on a direct line .
  " i'v got a call for you from dr. laden . he on the line .
  there goe her goddamn placenta ! " have you still got her husband on the other line ? " he ask .
  i may need you . " bill sinclair came on the line .
  ruth sinclair sister was call . when he tri to return the telephon call , the line was busi and rather than wast ani time he had driven right over to the hous .
  he got up and head out through the swing door . his answer servic was on the line , hold a call from bill sinclair .
  " oh , my , " i said in an apologet voic , " i didn't get you out of bed , did i ? " there was a moment of silenc on the other end of the line , and then with a wist littl sigh she repli , " no. but i wish you had . "
  mrs. barbara agt , allison closest friend on the faculti , say , " no one felt respons for inform the parent of the dead student . the kraus tri to telephon kent , but all line were out .
  telex comput product , tulsa , okla . for inform : circl 375 on reader card the model 185 termin allow a user to process unjustifi paper tape from a remot site use either dial-up or dedic line .
  a seem minor semant disput has given on-lin dp user and supplier a good chanc of win a major victori against ma bell . if they win , the fcc will take jurisdict over " inform system access line " that cross state border .
  the hope is that if fcc take over , isal rate will be reduc or abolish . the semant disput began last spring , when the commiss ask ma bell whi it had file interst tariff to cover onli a portion of type 2006 foreign exchang servic the portion repres by the foreign exchang line .
  last septemb , at&t was told to file tariff with the commiss cover " the complet interst foreign exchang servic . " it will be some time befor these rate are file , say an fcc offici , becaus the rule affect liter thousand of foreign exchang line .
  the latest frontal assault concern the ibm 2701/2/3 data adapt / telecommun control , which this vendor feel can be veri nice remov and replac by the ids-64/360 . a mac-16 mini is use to control from 1 to 256 synchron or asynchron line .
  paul had brought the fig tree from north florida and honor alway thought of the one jesus curs when she look at it , becaus it remain barren in spite of paul care tend . when she had finish the dish honor call ann luis and knew at onc from the glum tone at the other end of the line that ann luis parent had gone out and left her to baby-sit .
  the nois damper on my air-condition has blown through the roof . " " oh , hell , " a tire voic said at the other end of the line .
  i telephon the offic and had them connect me with bertha cool . " donald , bertha , " i said , when i heard her voic on the line .
  " just a second . " seller came on the line .
  now what are you go to do ? " i pick up the phone , ask for an outsid line , dial homicid , and got frank seller . "
  i walk past him out of the offic , on into my own offic and call sacramento . i got lucill patton on the line .
  as might happen in a real shoot , the countdown was interrupt sever time becaus of problem , and it was soon determin that a key radar station on wake island in the pacif ocean was not oper proper . a line check was made and the malfunct trace to a switch center in hawaii .
  we'v put an automat tracer on the phone which feed our equip . if he call , the number he call from is automat lock in and fed to us and we don't have to go through all that two-phon jazz , keep him on the line .
  " okay , do that , " i said . elsi pick up the telephon , punch the button for bertha line , wait a moment , then said , " mr. lam just came in , mrs. cool .
  " the woman would simpli ask to be connect with my offic . you'd talk with her and she would tell you what she want to see me about so then i'd get on the line .
  leav them to me . i'll talk long enough to keep the line busi for the proper interv .
  the switchboard oper said , " i'll connect you with his secretari . " a moment later elsi was on the line .
  public was siren music to the ear of the stripper , and she quit pull the zipper to listen . when i had colley on the line , i said , " okay , colley , your idea work . "
  sex , seduct and sure-fir stori stuff . get the hell off the line so i can start call the newspap !
  i grin and said , " back to your crime clip , sister . bertha cool will be in direct , and i'v got to get an attorney on the line and get iren addi to file a petit for the probat of the last will and testament of herbert jason dowl .
  basic , this is becaus the nois is elimin in the process of convert the signal into light puls . the result is that nois generat at the send end isn't transmit , and there is no " line nois " as such .
  mark comput system , inc. , plainview , n.y. for inform : circl 309 on reader card cip ( communic interfac processor ) is a turnkey system that enabl multiplex of low speed termin direct into 360 comput without softwar modif . consist of processor , rom for multiplex / demultiplex and os compat , 360 interfac hardwar , and line adapt , cip take care of code convers , network mainten and monitor . the system support up to 12 multiplexor over full duplex , voic grade line ( 1200 , 2400 or 4800 baud ) and up to 176 low speed ( 600 baud ) line . the ceil on the low speed line is determin by the number of channel address by the 360 system .
  he close his eye and tri to make his mind a blank , and he had almost drop off to sleep when the telephon rang , send a jolt through him like an electr charg . he pick it up and said , " hello , " and immedi wish he hadn't , becaus it was selden fulton at the other end of the line .
  standish took the emend proof sheet and left , and goodman pick up the phone and dial his home number . the line was busi , so he hung up , and almost immedi his phone rang .
  and don't phone me . if he find the line busi , he might decid just promis me you won't talk to that agent , or the polic , or anyon . "
  thank , anyway . " the transatlant line die .
  takada seem pleas . onc , the voic at the other end of the line was that of pete russo , who want to know if he could borrow a left-hand toggl switch .
  " ross , you bastard , is this your idea of a joke ? " on the other end of the line , safe by half an island , stuie ross beam .
  " wrong telephon , " she said . " that the outsid line .
  " household scandal . that aw sanctimoni gamboni , our butler , was on the line , make a call from paul room , which he has no right to do anyway .
  there was a tini hesit , and then emmi said , with curious emphasi , " i'm all right . it you that ... " there was a click , and the line went dead .
  " when john came out of natasha room and ran into paul and myself , " he went on , " he was embarrass not to see paul , who understood the situat perfect , but to see me . for my benefit , he made up a ridicul lame excus ; that he had been tri to telephon from natasha room , but that the line was engag .
  she ask him , " was i veri bad , darl ? " without answer her , he pick up the telephon and told the oper to tri him on that line if he could not be found elsewher .
  i walk straight into the telephon booth and ask for merlin offic number . would his line be tap ?
  i gave my name as caneton . merlin came on the line , first as a distant voic say apologet : " ... m'excus , inspecteur . "
  i thought " i took a coupl of quick step and pick up the phone . " qui est " but the line was dead by now .
  " one of them pretti . " there was a crackl on the line that might have been his age chuckl .
  the dialer set off a seri of impuls that race electron toward ani given number . onc the phone is answer , the apparatus lock and an experienc technician , know where to look , can figur out where the call origin , but onli so long as the caller remain on the line .
  in the mackl game room 669 mile south of atlanta , agent lee kusch impati pick up the telephon . " get off the line , pleas , " he began , then stop in mid-sent .
  " and now someth that is a part of all of our live ... a messag from the sponsor , " kupcinet said to the camera . he smile until the red light went out , then immedi turn and pick up a telephon with " kup " print on the dial , his line to the control booth .
  i was begin to get the distinct impress that brother allen did not like me . then he bustl out of the box , jerk his head over his shoulder at the phone and said : " my busi manag is on the line .
  " that was the last time bell ever talk on the phone . he couldn't get his wife off the line .
  i found out it was me . both jeanett and i assum he was there to test the line or chang the dial .
  i forgot about transcontinent phone call . my wife spent so much time call her mother and sister that the state depart use to break in and ask her to get off the line .
  " i'll tell you what , " she volunt . " we'll put a test on your line , and i'll let you know what happen . "
  put him on . " at this point i hear all sort of garbl commot at the other end of the line .
  " yeah . " there was anoth veri long paus with dead air on the line between them .
  i crumpl the note and toss it on the bed , then snatch up the phone again . " get off the line , jim .
  i'v got to call the airport . " " get off the line ? " he said .
  " i'll be by your place in a few minut to pick it up . now get off the line so i can see if i'm too late to hold the plane .
  don't even put that phone down . keep this line open and stick that phone in general cooper face the instant he come through that door .
  just a moment . bob vincent of the fbi come on the other line .
  i want to talk direct with my crew . " " can we keep an open line with you ? "
  onli three chute . someon forgot he was on open radio line and swore vicious .
  he got the word . we'r keep an open line to his offic .
  " yes . " " if you still have that open line to the white hous you'd better notifi the presid of the situat . "
  " sheridan toss the telephon to vincent and turn to his aid . " is that line open to the pentagon ?
  he say that some of his best tip have come from the least like sourc ( " peopl with their offic in their hat , " he call them ) and he never refus to talk to stranger who visit his offic or telephon him . " you never know when santa claus might be on the other end of the line , " fuqua remark .
  the telephon ring . ah , it is one of our happi custom about to come on the line , no doubt want to express his satisfact with some handsom masonit product that he has instal .
  he would still have like to use charl russel but he didn't think russel would chang his mind . so he pick up a phone whose line was secur and he rang to what russel had onc command .
  most of the public telephon were alreadi tie up by correspond . somebodi was fight with the hous phone , under the impress that it was an outsid line , and so brad took the elev up to his room and put in a call to rhona suit .
  he pick up the telephon . " this is eddi , " he said , when foley came on the line .
  earlier that same morn mahler had been awaken by the inexor telephon . landowski was on the line .
  he turn away and ask for a telephon number . jane gate was instant on the line .
  " yes , doctor ? " the line went silent .
  staff peopl pass the open door , wave good night , and went on . final a cautious syrupi voic got on the line .
  " wait a minut , " o'dwyer said . sarah got on the line at onc .
  i scream , " my god , she been burn , " and ran half-dress and half-crazi to the phone downstair . pick up the receiv , i heard two farsi voic chat and i scream for them to get off the line immedi .
  but now , when i need them , the word were come . it seem like hour befor i could reach bob on the crackl , scratchi line .
  " for now , we'll concentr on the system . some of the major data bank , like the one held by defens , may have five hundr or a thousand access line .
  some of the major data bank , like the one held by defens , may have five hundr or a thousand access line . a year ago , wilken congression committe start to worri about unauthor tap into those access line .
  " pete , just tell me what it mean . " " jesus , this is an open line . " " i know it an open line .
  " i haven't got time . " " you'r ask me on an open line to defin a hot new weapon system and break it code and you haven't got "
  " yes we did , and now somebodi got themselv a half-ton of zv gas in binari aerosol cylind , and we want to know who . " " you certain ought to be concern , " grave said , " but this is an open line . "
  when he reach the station the one-and-on taxi was off on a long trip . he tri to phone fenella but the line was out of order , so natur he put a call through to us and oliv took it .
 mr. marasek has been known to sew a loaf of bread togeth to prevent the cast from trip over a fallen slice. itself pose a risk to actors, who may swallow more than their lines. 
 "planter is give us cashew for broadway bound,'" say mr. marasek."th cast goe through a pound a show, even though there onli a line about one nut in the script. 
 macbeth is crown king, but he is consum by guilt.experienc gradual disintegration, he utter the line that signal the futil of his existence: 
 mr. boeski -- whose prep-school educ presum includ an introduct to greek and shakespearean tragedi -- may have been less surpris than other by his own downfall.perhap he rememb the line from shakespear "henri viii": "cromwell, i charg thee, fling away ambition, by that sin fell the angels." 
 "first of all, i can't stand movi with titl i can't pronounce," say one.h show us actor train in shakespear stumbl over such tryout line as: "i ain't be got no weapon." 
 indeed, it is rumor that some firm in new york at time dispens entir with lengthi bill and detail per-hour calculations.cli report get a one-pag bill on which is written a singl line. 
 not until he got to emerson college, where he major in directing, did he learn to speak fluently.a he recal his colleg days, he interrupt himself to rattl off the first six line of molier "the misanthrope." 
 no one question mr. dole masteri of the detail of govern and his quick wit, but it still isn't clear whether he will be abl to project vision, to talk less about committe action and more about conviction.th entreati to add a broader vision and a rhetor lilt to the candid appeal -- to forc a speaker accustom to the senat chamber to project his voic to a nation audienc -- are plain jar to mr. dole, who is uncomfort with the touch of tennyson that crept into the polit speech of the kennedi brother or with the line from lincoln that are the stapl of republican speeches. 
 the agenc is tri to determin whether a unit of giant group ltd., a bever hills, calif.-bas cement concern control by mr. sugarman, and other entiti with tre hold fail to disclos that they were act in concert, sourc said.becaus of a product error some line were drop in an earlier edition. 
 the speech larg was written not by the usual team of white hous speechwriters, but by an outsid to the administration, landon parvin.mr. parvin has written some of first ladi nanci reagan anti-drug speech as well as gag line for a number of well-known washington officials, includ former chief of staff regan. 
 i wish i could rememb who -- wrote, "there no sport righter than a sportswriter."it a cute line, but untrue. 
 three month later, when the tune was given the song-slid treatment, "take me out to the ball game" becam a big hit.twelv to 16 color transpar were usual necessari to illustr a song, one slide for each line of lyrics. 
 the brief shot open with him saying: "when i said i never knew a thing about the waterg break-in, you probabl didn't believ me, did you?"that line is follow by a descript of mr. ehrlichman as "an unbeliev person for an unbeliev product." 
 as it stands, awkward as a boy who walk nake into the "y" pool and discov a crowd gather for a swim meet, "ishtar" provid embarrassment, but also laughter.ms. may has written some great joke and clever lines: for example, the way jack weston, who doe a brief but amus stint as the low-level talent agent who repres the duo, sum up his client career prospects. 
 the news provid a lot of the jokes.about a half hour befor the show, the cast of six gather backstag to brainstorm about new lines. 
 although a former democrat and teachers-union activist, he earn a reput as a fiscal conserv dure his two term as mayor of tampa, fla., by slash properti taxes.a a gubernatori candidate, mr. martinez, the grandson of spanish immigrants, mock his democrat opponent, steve pajcic, with line such as: "he never met a tax he didn't like." 
 peopl go about find one in differ ways.th industri will buy the daili race form and perus the long line of tini number that constitut the hors biographies. 
 but "the bronx zoo" sweat and strain all the same, regal us poor understimul viewer with oodl of lip-moistening, hip-grind dirti talk.whil harri and sara talk a good game, the action is less convinc -- perhap becaus the two actors, david wilson and kathryn harrold, can't conceal their boredom with the stupid line they have to recite. 
 mr. werner, a 27-year-old litig specialist with kirkpatrick & lockhart, also describ how a firm might review the work of a young associ name abraham lincoln: "about your work habits: you can't turn in your speech on the back of an envelope. . . .and this first line, fourscor and seven years. 
 their shortsight commit to quarter figur skew the market and can be address onli through new feder legislation.their testimoni remind me of the line in the comic strip "pogo": "we have met the enemi and he is us." 
 a local minist forbad his congreg to see "hamlet" -- presum becaus of cuss word ad by the company.and there were mishaps, as when gus watson, the grocer, forgot the line "how now lord hamlet" and settl for "hi." 
 telephon line link home termin to the compani central comput weren't alway reliable."we'd lose a line in the middl of transmission, and mani time have to redo the work," say raymond howell, who help overse hartford yearlong experiment. 
 natur lighting, subdu colors, extrem close-up and a graini film qualiti all contribut to the true-to-lif feel of cinema verit ads.also, peopl in the ad speak with a natur cadence, use colloqui phrase and punctuat their line with paus and an occasion "uh" or "you know." 
 we have onli four teeth.bayles: alf, you use that line in a recent episode! 
 "he quiet, not particular argumentative, and he know what question to ask.if a lawyer forget ani of his lines, nate is the first to prompt him." 
 behind the scenes, however, anoth battl was brew within congress itself.th budget resolut contain a line that is like to creat a furor in the oil industri and between lawmak from differ region of the country. 
 "the way i alway cast is, would i want to sit next to him in a bar?" he says.add michael forman, a hollywood talent agent, "we have model that can't for the life of them deliv a line." 
 ibm is expect to spend $30 million advertis the new product in the next three months.th barrag began with a full-pag newspap ad yesterday that carri no compani name and end with a singl line: "here we go again." 
 the decis "no" vote was cast by an execut who thought the novel was an adolesc fantasy, and said the author would do well to consult a therapist about his problem.th line found it way into the novel. 
 her own marriag is an even richer sourc for the strip.mrs. johnston often interrupt a marit argument to jot down a particular good line, say her husband, rod. 
 the success of the cooki led her to team up with deborah kaufman, an art administrator, to form divin inc.th compani first product, call divin poetri in chocolate, is a hand-folded, chocolate-dip fortun cooki contain line from a poet, such as oscar wild or gertrud stein. 
 percentag figur were slight off in one line of a tabl accompani warren brook articl on yesterday editori page. 
 one read far too much about cocain addict these day for either reaction.what caught my eye were a coupl of line in which mclain explain whi he felt he was abov the kind of constraint that might have led him to think twice about use the illeg and harm drug. 
 mr. resnai compar the melodrama to a puccini opera."i want it to be like a draw you make without lift the pen off the paper -- i want the audienc to be move by the line, the simplic of the line." 
 agreement even on relat trivial matters, such as common safeti standard for forklift or children toys, take years.so mani tedious council of minist meet end without real progress on major issu that report joke that there is one open line that serv for 90% of their stories. 
 as a wall street journal reporter, i'm often ask for advic on good investments.i respond with such old line as: "want to make a small fortun in the markets? 
 gabelli equiti trust inc. had a net asset valu of $9.36 and a close price of 8 7/8 as of friday.in the list of public trade fund in an earlier edition, the line were reversed. 
 "oh, what a tangl web we weave, when first we practic to deceive," recit assist u.s. attorney sheldon light, cite sir walter 19th-centuri poem "marmion."mov ahead 100 years, he close with mr. dylan immort line, "you don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows." 
 although there no plot to speak of, the cast includ the titl character, a seer who talk to the bird (and they to him, natch); numer believ and skeptic passers-by; a host of god and goddesses; the personif of sorrow; and the personif of laughter.ther are also line for "a thousand voices" (muffled) and "the distant mountains" (which say "mogoooo! 
 she could be a young mother or a career girl," he says."but when you read the first two lines, she isn't that way anymore. {she is} out sleep around." 
 virginius dabney, now 85, add a prefatori note about the incept of this select from his book and newspap writing.occasion he insert a few line of comment at the head of a chapter. 
 no one, least of all mr. hall, would say that the answer are all in on the futur of the dtc.but for the moment he can afford to take a deep breath and mayb even sing one of randi newman line from a song in "all the king men": i'm all right now. 
 america is the land of the norman rockwel small town of his hollywood youth.doubtless olli north deed remind the presid of his own intrepid exploit in film like "desper journey," where he help errol flynn escap from a nazi pow camp; the famous last line was, "now for australia and a crack at those japs!" 
 charl boyer didn't say it to hedi lamarr in the 1938 film "algiers."but the famous line that never was has lent the oldest section of this capit an imag of glamour and romanc -- and not without justification. 
 he never grew up and his vers is bog in his swansea childhood."but in write such line will you allow yourself to think you are not pay off dylan for his inimit verbal talent? 
 the big question about him is whether he can excit voter on the stump.seem anticip this problem yesterday, he deliv line that echo john f. kennedy. 
 but there must be someth between overstyl video imageri and this lifeless stuff; beer commerci carri more of a wallop.ms. jett make someth out of patti despit the line mr. schrader has given her. 
 nobodi els made ani impact, and not much was gain by chuck the opera tradit spoken dialogu in favor of some recent discov recit pen by massenet after the 1884 premier at the opera-comique.on the other hand, the met forc it "carmen" cast to speak the origin french dialogu instead of the tradit orchestr lines. 
 "who knew the market would go up so far, so fast, this earli in the year?" say greg confair, the presid of sigma financi inc., an allentown, pa., invest adviser."it proof of the old line that the market will alway act in a way to frustrat the greatest number of people." 
 it start out with a line in ronald reagan 1986 state of the union address ask a member of his cabinet to come up with a program in which "the privat sector and govern can work together" to protect american hit by catastroph ill from financi ruin. 
 how mani but-for arguments, "res ipsa" claim and 1,000-word footnot can our cultur absorb?how mani more feder judg can get by with line like, "we write, therefore, on a relat "tabula rasa," despit the burgeon field of secur law." 
 mr. iacocca has repeat said he doesn't want the nomin and appear eager to send that messag again follow the board meeting."i'm steal a line from the presid and go for four more years, but i'm do them in detroit, and not in washington," he said. 
 howev it is also rearrang and out of context to suit mr. billingsley contention.th veri next line of my statment made it clear that i had been speak satir and that those view did not repres my own attitudes.mr. billingsley did not see fit to quot that line. 
 the postal servic said it will modifi it contract with electrocom autom inc. of arlington, texas, in order to acquir more sophist mail-sort equipment.th new contract will mandat design chang so the equip will be abl to "read" sever line of a type address on a business-s envelope.th origin electrocom contract, valu at about $200 million, was for the deliveri of 406 mailsort capabl of read onli one line. 
 in the famous final scene of the 1939 film "gone with the wind," rhett butler, free at last from scarlett spell after be led around by the nose for three hour and 40 minutes, respond to her ultim tirad with a sad, debonair: "frankly, my dear, i don't give a damn."even today, audienc greet the line with cheer and applause. 
 he stomp around tampa threaten to molest the skin in various ugli ways, includ tear off their lip (ugh!).alzado also got off the best pre-sb line i'v heard. 
 american express offici say the compani receiv a stand ovat at the ralli when one of their market told the crowd, "we'r mile-high on the broncos."add the compani mr. freeman, "how could you pass up a market line like that?" 
 "lorillard won't public admit it made a mistake, even though the peopl there are concern about the controversi and will be alter the ads," say a sourc close to the company.but sara ridgway, a lorillard spokeswoman, assert that the campaign won't be kill and that if there are ani changes, "the essenc of the ads, includ the line, the experi you seek, will remain the same." 
 a prefac of a singl page or less accompani each play.ther is a glossary, and for the "sonnets" an index of first lines. 
 sure one day to enter standard book of quotat was sir robert admiss that sometim in his role as chief mandarin he had to be "econom with the truth."that line, say peter hennessy, a british polit commentator, "could have come straight out of sir humphrey mouth in yes, prime minister. " sir humphrey appleby, in the tv show, hold the same job as sir robert hold in real life under prime minist margaret thatcher. 
 the hous and senat committe investig the iran/contra affair are tri to work out an agreement to meet on altern days.that way neither will upstag the other as each new revel is milked, like a fine line from hamlet, for all it worth. 
 but what, exactly?beyond memor the line and move about in an appropri way, what doe an actor do? 
 "i play the friend of anoth psychiatrist, who is perplex becaus her patient, a compuls gambler, want to commit suicide," say miss skala."but a lot of my line were difficult to understand. 
 in one instance, miss skala was abl to tone down some raw dialogu by suggest a substitut joke she rememb from her act career in austria, where she was born.in a scene with miss crouse, she ad a line, "you need joy." 
 charl lindbergh histor word were, "i made it."neil armstrong utter the neat craft "one small step" lines. 
 "they are intrigued," add ms. emmons, "becaus never has the technic matter so much.in other product you kill yourself to make a chair and the director will just throw it out if they cut the line about the chair. 
 but the api, join by some group profess concern for "nation security," has begun suggest that anoth energi crisi might develop sometim in the near future, probabl by the mid-1990s.wher have we heard that line before? 
 as it happened, much of the oil industri fare veri well under controls, main becaus of the system of "entitlements" that act as a subsidi to compani that depend heavili on import oil.w wonder to this day whether the shell and exxon execut who peddl the "impend shortage" line back then had foreseen how well their privat interest would be served. 
 at one point last week, the juror sent word to judg cook that they were deadlock on the loan issue, but judg cook sent back a note tell them to "continu to deliberate," mr. bryce said.h said the instruct that most confus the juror as they continu to deliber was one line on a special verdict form that read, "without such unanim agreement, you must find the defend not guilti of count one" -- a racket charge. 
 he said the instruct that most confus the juror as they continu to deliber was one line on a special verdict form that read, "without such unanim agreement, you must find the defend not guilti of count one" -- a racket charge.mr. bryce said the juror ask the judg for a specif clarif of that one line. 
 if you'r not abus me, you'r embarrass me."i didn't fulli appreci this line of dialog until the movi was over. 
 the rev. pat robertson has good ideas, "but i don't think we'r readi for him."ther "someth about" rep. kemp "that make it imposs for peopl to understand what he is saying," and when a fellow gop candid told her mr. kemp remind him of the strateg defens initi -- about 60% effect -- she ask whether she could borrow the line. 
 mr. o'neil may be the sort of man who watch "gener electr theatre," but even retir has not mellow his view of ronald reagan, who enter polit in a fashion alien to mr. o'neil and who domin washington in the year of his speakership."most of the time he was an actor read lines, who didn't understand his own programs," mr. o'neil writes. 
 the command to shoot escape has been made into law.even their nation anthem is no longer sung becaus a line in the text says, germany, unit fatherland.'" 
 these are the kind of answer that could come from children in ani school in ani stable, decent community, and for a moment it is possibl to forget that the moral and physic blight of the ghetto is just outside.but sudden it intrud in a singl line, tortuous written and full of misspellings, produc by a 15-year-old girl. 
 mr. abbott arriv here in earli april, and after two gruel day of audit set to work with the 20-member cast.at first the actor were put off by mr. abbott practic of tell perform exact how to say a line and where to move. 
 but gradual i ad schoolboy stuff: a tug at the forelock, dig my shoe in the carpet.thre week into the run the laugh were gone, and georg said to me: just say the line flat without those curlicues. 
 movi buff rememb the line. 
 the same arrang will be use to portion out $12,000 gift from next week dinner, preced by cocktail at mr. gorog home in mclean, va.th invit includ 15 line of fine print explaining, "in accord with feder elect regulations, 11 cfr 9034.8(c)(3)," how the money will flow. 
 it is appropri to ask whether, in our contemporary, deregul transport environment, the law promot or encumb public-interest considerations; whether noth more is need than to transfer the two industri to the other law; or whether, in an attempt to change, the collis of special interest in congress might reshuffl the deck in some unpredict way that would not serv either the public or the industries.for peopl who have invest their career in one or the other of the railway labor act industries, these are profound question that deserv more than a throwaway line in what is otherwis a construct editorial. 
 richard leder write in verbatim, the languag quarterly, that a version of the song in earli french had the suitor offer onli a partridge, or une pertriz.a 1718 english version combin partridg and pertriz so that the line came out sound like a partridg in a pear tree. 
 that smart was a nativ of nearbi baton rouge, la. -- a mere set shot from his superdom heroic -- ad piquanc to the show.th truth-is-strang line was stronger at the masters, where winner mize, a longtim also-ran, was a home-town boy who had cut his spike at augusta countri club, just across the fenc from the august augusta nation cours where the tourney is held. 
 for the taping, he brought togeth the score of politician who have appear on agildo in wonderland over the past nine months.al they had to do was wave beer glass and sing a wish for the new year, includ these lines: 
 pennzoil further cave in when it drop it demand for interest total about $1 million a day until payment of the settlement.mr. kinnear station himself at weil gotschal with his batteri of attorney as the draft plan was examin line by line. 
 "at night, befor we'd go to sleep, jack like to play some records; and the song he love most came at the veri end of this record.th line he love to hear were: don't let it be forgot, that onc there was a spot, for one brief shine moment that was known as camelot.'" 
 newspap editor franci p. church becam famous for a 1897 editorial, address to a child, that includ the line "yes, virginia, there is a santa claus." 
 dawn upshaw did not becom the hot new soprano overnight, just almost overnight.thre year ago she was a graduat student make her metropolitan opera debut with "three line and a great costume" as the countess ceprano in "rigoletto." 
 but he see littl reason to believ that it measur to decentr econom decis will achiev their goal of inspir greater product and creativity.on joke mr. birman hear from friend back home revers that old karl marx line about capit be a necessari stage on the road to socialism. 
 feder reserv board chairman alan greenspan borrow a line from his predecessor, paul volcker, and call upon the reagan administr and congress to take further step toward close the budget deficit. 
 "wall street casualty," say another, follow by ad head "post black mon value" and "crash victim anxious for im sale."som of these line may be just attention-getters. 
 possibl still lack is a sens of whimsy.som nutti line fell flat. 
 report from miami stake out his hous and discov donna rice.and sen. biden, the democrat demosthenes, unhors for borrow class-consci line from a celebr speech by neil kinnock, long-wind leader of great britain socialist party. 
 it turn out, too, that mr. biden realli wasn't the student at colleg and law school he had said he was."i exagger when i get angry," said the senator, in a line that would have sent h.l. mencken run for his trusti corona typewriter. 
 you'v land in the 50s, take in still anoth earnest, angri melodrama about the failur of the system to recogn that eccentr aren't necessarili crazy.you'r hear line such as: "a divorc woman is a target. 
 nevertheless, the compos call his "desert song" a romant operetta and it was stage as such at the 1926 premiere.societi have made a few small advanc sinc then, director/choreograph robert johanson stage the piec as a parody, appar revis part of the libretto though i wouldn't own up to it if i were he sinc no line utter suggest a modern mind at work. 
 a british scientist is risk his life to get it out.i am hook from the open line: 
 the movi onli bona fide star is jame earl jone as "few clothes" johnson, the impromptu leader of the black scabs.though his line are few, the sheer bulk of his bodi and that reson voic make his presenc felt throughout. 
 next week, however, a tini silicon valley firm will introduc a new reader that appear to provid a price breakthrough in read technology.clos held transimag corp. $2,600 hand-held reader can be swept along a line of text in a book or magazin and instant turn it into comput code for editing, alter or insert into letter or manuals. 
 will he tri to take her home?"you are put me in a veri delic position," he says, in what seem to be a stock line for august bachelors. 
 the last two line are probabl the most familiar: 
 and even though he led us to believ that we were in for an even of sentiment comedy, we let him get away with it.but when he bring all the survivor onstag to weep disconsol at their loss, and then, with a singl mean line of dialogu set them all laugh again we won't buy it. 
 the network say they have to polic commercials, becaus ad encourag peopl to imit them, while program is mere meant to entertain.typically, advertis send to the network storyboard of plan commercials; then the network examin everi line and nuance, often send commerci back for chang and sometim reject them altogether. 
 the group catch his enthusiasm."in a thousand year i couldn't come up with a line like this," say mr. gross. 
 in numer flashback scenes, we see him brutal his wife, his son, and his daughter, elena.sinc it imposs to judg the literari qualiti of a play when it line are be simultan translat via headphones, it hard to know if "renidero" is realli as didact as it seem to me. 
 this time, however, the formula flounders.oh, there are funni line and antic scenes: for example, mr. gently, the holist privat dick, promis to "solv the whole crime" and to "find the whole person," and a univers don nose is describ as bear a strike resembl to "the controversi keel which had help the australian win the america cup in 1983." 
 globe editor say mr. taylor hand is light."w talk over major things, but bill doesn't look over everi line of copy," say martin nolan, editori page editor. 
 this latest "jaws," the fourth in the series, is do good business, though the audienc i saw it with didn't seem veri scared, or veri involv in ani way at all.no one gasp when the shark (was it alway so obvious fake?) chomp human snacks, nor did anyon boo or hiss at the silli line and general aw performances. 
 accord to one current school of opinion, love is no longer compat with femal self-respect.thi opinion is reflect in the scene where molli fail to get a rise out of her psychiatrist until she blurt out the line about still love fred. 
 then the doctor prick up her ears; clearly, here is evid of a serious disorder.and the same line is quot in this week tv guid articl about blair brown, the actress who play molly, as evid of the contrast between the fiction molli and the real-lif ms. brown. 
 paul maslin, poll taker and polit strategist, say he can predict now the singl line that will set off the biggest ovat at next summer democrat nation convention. 
 most virtuous of all is ritchie, play by lou diamond phillips, who with his sweet face and delic carriag alreadi look frozen into sainthood.h walk around the camp, his guitar tuck under his arm, exud good and line like: "mi dream are pure rock and roll." 
 with his eye dart and intelligent, adm. poindext had a professori demeanor and a wonder prop, his pipe.h had some good line too, includ the climact word the whole plot had been build toward: "the buck stop here, with me." 
 the instrumentalist manag to cover the voic without much trouble, but mr. levin and the orchestra never summon the full-blood sound and the energi that schoenberg huge score wants.among the soloists, tatiana troyano made a marvel affect wood dove; philip creech was expert as klaus the fool, and mr. castel handl the line of the speaker most effectively. 
 "black talk to their star on the screen.if they hear a clever line, they'll say, get down. 
 those brief line tell much about the histori of farm in this area. 
 to help doctor and medic student sort through the thousand of pill and potion on the market, anoth comput program call mcdope, written at mcmaster univers in ontario, allow the user to administ drug to a varieti of patient and immedi wit the like results.until it was revised, the program includ this line: "your patient just died; do you have a good lawyer?" 
 joan river provid the voic of a robot lady-in-waiting.h line are disappoint dull but there great pleasur in hear that voic come out of a shapely, skinni bodi that look as though it been dip in gold lame from head to toe. 
 besid that, fashion in marriag chang as in other things.that line in the wed ceremoni about "until death do us part" seem nowaday a tie less bind than in former times. 
 conductor paul nadler control the ebb and flow of tchaikovski score with an expert hand.bariton mark pedrotti deliv onegin haughti line with a sneer as wide as siberia, but his sing was consider more detail and refined. 
 sometim he stop to review a detail.h dissatisfi with a coupl of deliveries, and mr. kosberg note the lines. 
 he vow to combat unfair trade practic overseas, creat an agricultur polici that works, help the homeless, build strong famili with strong values, and fight crime and violence.and in a line that seem to puzzl the carthaginians, he said that "the ancient practic of human sacrifice, onc commonplac throughout the world, is now obsolete." 
 he has, after all, been write familiar essay for a long time, and he has his move down pat.perfect titl ("they said you was high-class") and perfect open line ("how do thing stand with you and the seven dead sins?") are standard equipment. 
 pennzoil last week purchas advertis in 35 u.s. citi and in the intern herald tribune.th top line read, "on novemb 13, 1987, the wall street journal refus to run, unedited, this pennzoil ad." 
 "i like to feel comfort with do good while i go about do what i do well," he asserts.mr. delfin, who has the born salesman easi grin and smooth line of patter, is now focus on rais money for the red cross disast relief fund, which total about $30 million a year. 
 "the studi show the extent to which the most privileg in our societi have reap tremend benefit from reagan administr tax policies," said senat mitchell, invok the ancient theme of class warfare.w wonder if the senat bother to read the study, becaus if he had he might have recal the famous line about damn lie and statistics. 
 an exquisit littl paint by jean-jacqu hauer show anoth french ladi friend of wordsworth who did not: madam rolland sit in her draw room with her harp, pet dog and lafayette.plucki to the last, she manag a much-quot line befor tie down to the plank: "ah, liberty! 
 the 1923 classic mr. feshbach tout onc again is make the late, legendari jess livermor a cult figure.th notori stock-market specul from 1891 to 1940 probabl is best rememb for the line, "i never argu with the tape." 
 those men who, like me, have been remov for some year from the ceaseless bird-dog of their colleg day will enjoy ms. hite list of "pickup lines" now popular in colleg water holes.for everi line that employ the tool of the new age -- "i'v been take all these women studi cours and i'm so confus about my sexuality" -- there one that counterbal it with time-honor male logic: for example, "i bought you a beer!" 
 when the schoolkid put on their end-of-the-year concert in "sarafina!" it cap by a galvan number call "bring back nelson mandela."th afternoon i saw the show, a small knot of south african in the audienc shout "yes!" each time a line of the song invok the name of a south african martyr. 
 either way, mr. cavett is ill at eas -- shift uncertain from foot to foot, fidget with his hands.und the time pressure, he botch line and say inan thing (of a mid-match 200-200 tie he commented, "i can't help notic the score is fair even"). 
 and occasionally, the love-struck vincent even rise abov scriptwrit banality.instead of mouth line like "i realli care about what we have together, maddie," he has the sens to quot shakespeare. 
 and a success trip blight onli by bore banquet and ballet isn't the stuff of a dramat opera."nixon in china" unfold like a sappi pictur book, onc we stop be mild amaz see familiar-look politico turn into tenor and deliv such line as: "your flight was smooth, i hope?" (chou en-lai) "oh, yes, smooooooother than most" (nixon). 
 propon of this view were abet by nhl administrations, includ the current one, that held that fight is "part of the game."if you had a dollar for everi time a leagu or team offici mouth that silli line, you could restor all of the money lost in the recent stock-market decline. 
 there was no money in poetry, however.milton, for example, earn about a farth a line from "paradis lost." 
 in brief, the stori about marc connelli is one of those transfer of joke that alway occur when a joke is good.th man realli respons for the line attribut to connelli was, in fact, nichola longworth when he was speaker of the house.furthermore, his posit gave the line it real point -- the point be that the speakership in longworth day was not the dingi partisan and money-rais post that it has now become. 
 he trust his cops, and he like them tough.anoth of his famous lines: ". . . the way to treat crimin is "'spacco il capo.'" 
 "peopl tune in and saw the old rizzo," say mr. oxman, the polit consultant.hi most notabl line that night? 
 if al gore is sincer in distinguish his view from that of the other candidates, he will have to lay out his case for a stronger defens in much sharper and more convinc detail.otherwise, voter will be justifi in borrow a line from a previous candid and demand to know of al gore, "where the beef?" 
 if siegfri jerusalem was an unusu agil loge (wotan chief counsel), the chief god himself was unusu inert.jam morri deliv his line with a penetr bariton glint, but he has not yet finish grow into this signific role, and his odd tatti costum did not help him look important. 
 the alleg against mr. zaccaro hadn't yet been made when his wife, herself a former queen prosecutor, was make her vice presidenti bid.mr. zaccaro attorney, robert g. morvillo, borrow her former run mate line "where the beef?" -- itself borrow from a wendi hamburg ad -- in critic the state case. 
 there is a dadaist nonsens letter entitl "the," in which that word has been replac by an asterisk.thus, the epistl open line reads: "if you come into linen, your time is thirsti becaus ink saw some wood intellig enough to get busi from a sister." 
 real lawyer do not enjoy pseudo-courtroom thriller like "jag edge."they endur such drivel by find fault with everi line of courtroom dialogue, object through their popcorn. 
 you'v got to make your charact live.)then execut produc tobi hubner give me a real role with three line of dialogue, to be shot a few night hence."wow, three lines?" say the sarcast sound man, antonio arroyo. 
 rosali is play by carissa channing, 23, a bleached-blond breathtaker. (orvill is play by john mackay, age 39.)as i studi my lines, ms. chan worri that the tight white dress she wear in the scene is too sheer. 
 i say no, but this convinc her i am.th camera is roll into place, and my three line vanish from memory. 
 take two.adrenalin pumps, and i dare to ad lib, chang the line from "i don't think so, madame," to "nah, don't think so, lady, all right?" 
 ms. brown is quit effective, and doubli so to those who rememb her as she appear 10 year ago in "the turn point," when she was the naiv newcom who won mr. baryshnikov heart.you can see that toni is a playboy, with his leather jacket and his red sport car and the kind of come-on line onli teen-ag and intern celebr dancer would dare tri even on gullibl junior ballerinas. 
 in this, his first play, he take the role of the obnoxious, abus host of a radio call-in show, and let other actor play the oblig colleagu at the station and the lonely, sometim dement listen who call in.thi look like a real play, with david jenkin equipment-fil radio studio; with actors, under the direct of frederick zollo, walk on and off deliv lines; and with a possibl dangerous, certain derang fan burst into the studio for a face-to-fac confrontation. 
 joe biden was an earli expon of the charact issue, use it as a tool to undermin ed mees nomin to attorney general (mr. mees past acts, he intoned, were "beneath contempt").but charact came back to destroy mr. biden as a plagiarist, who even as he was withdraw from the race claim as his own robert kennedi "bend history" line, a borrow mr. biden had admit day earlier. 
 but as part of pbs wonder "american masters" series, "the ten-year lunch" is least success at what other show in the seri (notabl the season open on isaac bashevi singer) have done so well -- profil their subjects.w are introduc to a cast of characters, we hear a few of their famous lines, but we get onli the vaguest sens of them as people. 
 there someth decad about the algonquin round tabl -- so much partying, so mani arch word games, such desper cynic style consciousness.aft all those funni lines, whi should you end up feel sad? 
 if your muse isn't up to it, no matter.th bard of les-loges-en-josas, france, stephen powelson, stand ready, abl and more than mere will to pour the first 14,300 line into your ear, from memori -- and in classic greek.soon, he hopes, he will have commit the final 1,393 line to memory. 
 he has return to the u.s. at least 40 time in the past 10 year to do the "iliad" thing, usual for not more than an hour or two, at school and colleges.at these exhibit of mnemon prowess, a resid classicist random pick a line from the epic, and mr. powelson take it from there. 
 at the age of 10, he says, he memor in one week an entir year homework in sunday-school bibl studies.in prep school, he memor the first 100 line of the "iliad," took three greek cours in his senior year and won a nation prize for his greek. 
 he has perform at the univers of arkansas, colorado and massachusett and at tulan university, among other places.hi wife of 47 years, esther, say that mr. powelson is constant master new lines. 
 although it amalgam of recipes, crafts, fashion, advic and homemak tip will sound familiar -- "free in this issue!complet chicken cookbook and 8 recip card to save," read a cover line from the prototyp -- first promis a cleaner, more readabl packag with less ad clutter. 
 time and again he had rehears an answer refer to the victim in his famili and assert to mr. bush, "i don't need ani lectur from you about crime."h didn't deliv the line or even refer to his father or brother. 
 i am that man."h never use the lines, although -- like the plan answer to the question about crime -- he use them in subsequ speeches. 
 that not to impli that he doesn't do well with lucki long, chaotic medit on meditation.but even befor he utter a singl line of dialogue, mr. irwin astonish with his eloquence. 
 befor you even arriv at a party, of course, you must -- accord to ms. roan -- "practic your handshake."then deliv your open line, which you have practic beforehand as well. 
 they were well-suppli with blue-and-whit bush-quayl signs, red-white-and-blu pompon and miniatur american flags.high school cheerlead leap at mani applaus lines. 
 and without a budget deal, busi leaders, economist and even some of mr. bush own econom advis agre with mr. greenspan that financi instabl could quick follow.wal street and foreign market discount the vice presid tough anti-tax rhetor dure the campaign, assum he would drop his "read my lips; no new taxes" line after the election. 
 a pentagon spokesman says, "we have no specif solut for doe."th line at the nsc is, "doe has the lead on that right now." 
 hors are run to win purs and bets, not break records.th race track, where the talk is saltier than the french fries, has a stock line for everything, and "time is onli import in prison," cover that. 
 the consum product giant sought to becom a much bigger forc in the cooki business, develop a duncan hine soft cooki meant to challeng nabisco domin in the market.nabisco respond ferociously, with it own "almost home" line, and duncan hine market share end up be miniscule. 
 he has been twit his oppon for not know a dairi goat from a mountain goat.hi favorit line: "i'd like to see leo tri to milk that sucker." 
 this line has been move sharpli upward as more peopl crowd it from below.to steal a line from alan reynold of polyconomics, so mani peopl have been get rich there isn't room for them all in the top fifth. 
 here as elsewhere, mr. bush attack on gov. dukaki over such issu as crime and defens have hurt the democrat, but the poll show that the economi is one area where voter were more like to react favor to the governor as they learn more about his positions.perhap for that reason, mr. bush this week has been seek to appropri mr. dukaki own applaus line, tell support in wisconsin and michigan that "georg bush is on your side." 
 in this era of media-bashing, mr. sohmer was shrewd to make his investigator-hero an fbi agent (robert loggia) rather than, say, a washington post reporter.a for tv news, it get bash in the person of a brunette-bombshel produc (stepfani kramer) who curl her rubi lip around line like: "get me a closeup of those stiffs!" 
 it is ms. digg contention, though, that florenc was no plaster saint, and in her skill dramat the playwright illumin the mani side of this complex, driven woman.ms. digg make her point of view clear in the open line of the play, when someon come on stage recit henri wadsworth longfellow laudatori poem about the "ladi with the lamp," and anoth charact call the poem "sentiment drivel." 
 washington, mo.: anoth high school fill with teen-ag yell as he step out on a stage drape with so mani flag i thought he might wear one.whil he clear his throat to launch into his drugs, death and defens speech, reporters, a beat ahead, whisper his familiar open line: "with all this excitement, i can feel what it'll be like on elect night." 
 augusta, ga.: thomp.two motorcycles, nine car and vans, and two buse are roll resolut to the next stop, the regenc shop mall next door to a muffler shop -- and, please, we alreadi thought of the "midas him!" line. 
 it was just weird, in the sens of popular cultur find a bizarr way to express it racial ambivalence.on of the last minstrel was al jolson, describ by his biographer, pearl sieben, as a man who "need applaus the way a diabet need insulin" -- a line that might also describ michael jackson. 
 stump appear are chosen to highlight the messag visual and to look good on the night network television-new shows.snappi line are insert in the speeches, some of them test in advance, that are almost guarante to becom "sound bites." 
 soon, right on schedule, the bush messag will switch to taxes.th posit line will be that mr. bush won't rais taxes; the negat one will be that tax have gone up faster under mr. dukaki in massachusett than they have in the nation generally. 
 even with all this go for it, however, "reckless" doesn't measur up to mr. luca previous play, the excel "blue window."th playwright still show a deft hand with dialogu -- i especi like the way his off-spe line make you laugh first and wonder whi later. (for example, when lloyd ask rachel if she see her parents, she answers, "not sinc they died." 
 the confus is symbol by the differ between two former kennedi speech writer now work for mr. dukakis.theodor sorensen, the architect of "ask not . . ." and other soar john kennedi lines, recal an earlier liber of civic oblig and popular communiti goals. 
 the young michael dukaki was inspir by the parti of jack, but built his career in the parti of teddy.and this year he has borrow some of mr. sorensen lines, but more of mr. shrum message. 
 the chain quibbl with the way the ad is promot on the cover, which say "free condom inside" in promin type."spin intent may be honorable," a waldenbook offici says, "but the way the cover line is presented, it appear as though they'r use the featur of the free condom to sell the magazine." 
 and effect last july, the state start put all license-pl proceed direct into it treasuri -- instead of allow the rule parti to skim them first.th 52-year-old mr. mutz, borrow a line from ronald reagan, argu that republican "are the change." 
 "we'r just not get our return on investment," mr. bayh argues.lin like that pleas the republican who show up, sometim rather furtively, at bayh fund-raisers. (one gop attorney in fort wayn blanch visibl when a report ask him his name. 
 you knew one thing: good pitching, which the dodger had, beat good hitting, which was the a previous long suit.that line ought to go over the entranc at cooperstown. 
 a chemic spokesman said, "this transact is consist with chemic anti-apartheid south african polici in everi way."h note a line in the bank polici statement: "we have a polici against make loan to privat non-bank corpor for their oper in south africa." 
 justic liaco and abram have also object to the "good faith" except to the u.s. suprem court "exclusionari rule."in one murder case, for example, they exclud from trial evid from a search conduct by polic in good-faith relianc on a warrant issu by a magistr who, it was later noticed, had not struck through certain line on the print warrant form. 
 i becam rather fond of m, a casual self-deprec fellow play by patrick o'connell.h keep humor and horror nice in balanc for 90 minut and let the terror palpit through his lines. 
 the big institut investor aren't buy wall street line about now be a great time to jump back into the stock market with both feet. 
 as bedtim approaches, the xus sit togeth on a worn sofa and entertain their visitor by sing their favorit music, a chines opera call "marriag of a goddess."mr. xu stumbl occasion read his line and has to ask his wife for help. 
 for high british, it always, "oh, no" -- or "oew noew."sometimes, it a line from the script. 
 neat print on the wall was: "i ain't never gonna love nobodi but cornel crawford."th line stuck with her -- "so funni and dear, and who cornel anyway?" 
 all of punditri is treat lloyd bentsen crack that dan quayl is "no jack kennedy" as the best line of the campaign, but for the wrong reasons. 
 (at least the aid appreci the absurdity.th prize for best line of the night goe to bush pollster robert teeter. 
 bentsen and quayl polish their line for tonight 90-minut vice presidenti debat in omaha, neb. 
 "i don't believ it," said judith penniman, the abc producer, "we got a reader!"translation: abc anchor peter jen read the bentsen line himself, with no accompani pictur from his troop in the field. 
 it close friday at 4, down 5/8.the regina lesson may be that glow stori about compani should be read more for the one or two line of caution than for the posit comments. 
 then the women make their first major mistake.instead of lead their quarri line by line through the row of question on the registr form, they depart. 
 dukaki strategist believ that their man won the first debat but that they were outgun in the "spin patrol" claim afterward.they say their mistak was in react to the debat itself while the bush crew stuck to a prearrang line, and they vow to emul the gop tactic in next month final encounter. 
 all of these product were excel -- funny, well-acted, with good stories.yet, line after line of the dialogu was load with gratuit and explicit profanity. 
 the bank took out an ad in the time of london last week, which ran opposit excerpt from mrs. eliot edit of the letters.th ad reprint a line from a letter written in 1917: "i am get along nice in my work at the bank and i like it." 
 silence."and then the presid rememb a line he had use year before, someth about how he wouldn't make age an issu in the campaign, he wouldn't exploit his oppon youth and inexperience. 
 perfect, mr. ail told him, and the presid sudden seem to grow in self-confidence.mr. reagan use the line, and it was a zinger. 
 the rhetorician in the socialist camp have gotten so full of themselv late that some had come to doubt this point.in a much-quot line she said it would be folli to tri to fit the european countri "into some sort of identikit personality." 
 "we did consum research befor we made a price decis on good morning, vietnam and were a bit surpris to find such a high desir for ownership," say carol black, a disney video executive."som peopl were big robin william fans; other didn't get all the funni line the first time and want to view it over and over again. 
 mr. scala and his boss, mr. hohorst, who is 33 year old, both say they are too busi to read lengthi econom news stori and analyses.they reli main on the frantic financi wire services, and often they read onli the headlin -- a singl line of shorthand that appear on the veri bottom of their comput screens, in whatev space isn't taken up by a long list of currenc price quotes. 
 he knew, we knew, that the ayatollah would not live forever, and that iran is one of the most import countri in the middl east.w knew open some line to iran was in the nation interest; now that the war is wind down near everyon agrees. 
 as a young man he had turn out comic stori for cheap magazin and newspap at the rate of one a day; this work got him through medic school and kept his impoverish famili -- his parents, a sister, four brother -- aliv in their cramp moscow apartment.at the end of his life, the celebr playwright and author of 588 stori could bare write four line befor collaps in fatigu and pain. 
 mr. iron turn in a pair of bravura perform as the twins, but neither of them redeem this somber piec of work.poor geneviev bujold, the drug-snorting, authent canadian actress who come between them, is requir to say line like this, with a straight face: "i'v been bad, i need to be punished." 
 but as sure-foot as this product dramat scene are, it choral passag are lame.which is not to say that the 12 elder in the chorus can't project their lines. 
 antigon is play as a feminist, inveigh against "the law of the male sex."everi line about creon cruelti is render in the languag of the polic state, everi refer to antigon sex cloak in feminist rhetoric. 
 we didn't give john-john the award for all time, but just for 1988.take a look at the cover line again, and take comfort from it. 
 "the children come to school in plastic."on of their favorit song has the line: "it rain and rains/until the stone will break." 
 thus, when mr. dukaki went to annapoli wednesday for a statehouse-step ralli to taunt mr. bush for back out of the presidenti debat that was to have been held there, access was control by issu ticket through democrat leader for the best view area, which was rope off.th bush campaign, meanwhile, has taken to distribut case of air horn to support that can be sound whenev the vice presid deliv an applaus line so there will be a din of enthusiast cheer on televis -- and also can be use to drown out the chant of ani dukaki support who might materialize. 
 mr. bush doe sometim address substant issues, as he doe today in a well-receiv speech to san francisco conserv commonwealth club attack mr. dukaki record in manag the massachusett economy.but the speech, one of the most effect of mr. bush campaign, illustr it care style: the vice presid read it from a teleprompter, stick care to his prepar text and thus not risk ani distract ad lib like his pearl harbor day gaff of last week, or fumbl ani of the line design for televis consumption. 
 marilyn quayle, defend her husband mediocr academ record, told an interview last weekend that fdr "fail the bar exam seven times."yesterday, sen. quayl pick up the same line, say that roosevelt flunk "a number of times." 
 but then again that may be difficult.it use to take a minut on televis and one or two line in the newspap to give a weather report. 
 the new york shakespear festiv summer product of "king john" has given mani theatergo -- myself includ -- the chanc to be virgin again.it not often we get to see a shakespear play whose plot, characters, famous line and legendari interpret aren't rattl around our brain befor the curtain goe up. 
 it doesn't seem to matter if you'd been the econom advis to a presid under whom the economi failed, or are affili with a consult firm that can't come close to an accur econom forecast.with a snappi line about how mr. bush would need to reinstitut child labor, annex other countri or toler 20% inflation, you could get your lick in. 
 in my best imit of ethel merman, i sang a few chorus about be tired, and then drift into a noisi sleep on ms. raiken shoulder.sh elbow me and i awok with a start, belt out a few more off-key line about fatigu and life. 
 when he said he had left behind "thing you can't put in a suitcase," the audienc member wept unabashedly.they cheer yoli line about the yanqui and roar at the joke about "weepi argentines"; they turn this astut but modest play into an occas for a communal catharsi -- which is exact what aristotl said theater was invent to be. 
 offici here vigor dismiss ani parallel between the reform they oppos with forc in czechoslovakia and the soviet chang now be push by mr. gorbachev.despit glasnost, the new offici open about controversi topics, there were few articl in the media about sunday anniversary, and the one that were publish repeat the old offici line about "render internationalist assistance" to a grate czechoslovak people. 
 but the convent isn't seen boost senat prospects; republican have no sure pickup to offset like loss in virginia and nevada, and say they will do well to maintain the 54-46 democrat edge.candid will adopt reagan "we are the change" line to address voter desir in the poll for a new direction. 
 ms. richard had them roll in the aisl with her lacer jibe at georg bush silver foot in the mouth, etc.not to mention the best and the brightest of them -- the ginger roger line -- which brought down the house. 
 she just did it backward and in high heels.'"on woman in particular won't forget that line: the woman from whom ms. richard lift it -- tv journalist and author linda ellerbee. (it part of her lectur repertoire.) 
 ms. ellerbe also report that she spun around and warn the woman she was go to steal that.thi is, needless to say, not exact the same as appropri a line and then deliv it in tone brim of the pride of authorship -- in a keynot address.ms. ellerbe learn in advanc that ms. richard was plan to use the line, whereupon she inquir as to whether ms. richard was plan to cite the source. 
 after all, if ann richard and co. had been old-fashion enough to say, "as linda ellerbe tell us" or even "as i heard in a lectur somewhere," whi then the new york time columnist and a great mani other citizen probabl wouldn't have gone around talk about the formid wit and wisdom of ann richards.in the day follow the speech there was a certain amount of to-do about anoth line -- the famous silver-foot-in-the-mouth comment, which a washington writer claim came from his book. 
 nor is ms. richard alone.recal that walter mondal and speech writers, without bat an eye, filch and offer as mr. mondal own a line from a speech given by lane kirkland onli a day earlier: i.e., "where the beef?" (flash epigram have chang some sinc stevenson time, you'll note.) 
 recal that walter mondal and speech writers, without bat an eye, filch and offer as mr. mondal own a line from a speech given by lane kirkland onli a day earlier: i.e., "where the beef?" (flash epigram have chang some sinc stevenson time, you'll note.)among republicans, barri goldwat has the best reason to know the price you can pay for appropri lines.presidenti contend goldwat would have been a lot better off in 1964 if he had onli seen fit to credit the real author of what turn out to be the most self-destruct line ever utter in a campaign speech: "i would remind you . . . extrem in the defens of liberti is no vice." 
 presidenti contend goldwat would have been a lot better off in 1964 if he had onli seen fit to credit the real author of what turn out to be the most self-destruct line ever utter in a campaign speech: "i would remind you . . . extrem in the defens of liberti is no vice."th real author, whose line sen. goldwat chang slightly, was cicero.had the senat not neglect to mention this fact, the line, needless to say, would have been treat with the respect usual accord the wisdom of the ancient rather than as the extremist froth of the candid of the lunat right. 
 but my fellow americans, this is not a crime-does-not-pay story.b caught out lift line doesn't mean there no profit in it. 
 after all, despit a few rumbl here and there, the million who heard ann richard continu to credit her as the wit who said that about ginger and fred.ms. richard seem to know it, too, for on a sunday talk show a few day after the convention, she did allow as how she had taken a line -- the silver-foot-in-the-mouth one -- from lili tomlin co-author in "sign of intellig life in the universe." (she made no mention of ginger and fred). 
 all the same, the vice presid continued, mr. dukaki repres "the fail liber ideolog of the past.""som say this isn't an elect about ideology," mr. bush said in his address to the convention, mock a line from the dukaki accept speech. 
 "it noth new," say peter teeley, an old associ and former press secretari to the vice president.h recalls, with tender sentiment, a bush line from the 1980 campaign. 
 some of these name are drop for a reason, but most are there primarili to show off mr. wilson own literari breadth.th techniqu reach a level of distract absurd when, to elucid tolstoy increas contempt for his wife, mr. wilson quot three line of a poem by philip larkin, an english librarian born 12 year after tolstoy die and who could not be more remot from yasnaya polyana in sensibl than a martian. 
 in a warm receiv speech that seem sought to distanc him from reagan administr civil-right policies, mr. bush outlin what he call a "posit civil-right agenda," and promis to have "minor men and women of excel as full-scal partners" dure his presidency.on win line from that speech: "whenev racism rear it ugli head -- howard beach, forsyth county, wherev -- we must be there to cut it off." 
 everi bell and whistl in the orchestr bag of trick is heard.sometimes, the larg cast, 13 or so depend on how you count the extra and the offstag alto voice, sing all at onc but with differ lines. 
 meanwhile, sen. domenici, a longtim backer of deficit-reduct measures, work himself into a "no tax increase" postur to help his own cause.gop strategist eddi mahe suggest bush err by delay his choic until the last minute: the convent is a stage show, and "you ought to figur out who the star are so you can write their lines." 
 indeed, his strategi seem to be not to say veri much at all about foreign policy.hi "well-received" atlant council speech in june was littl more than a routin defens of nato, while his accept speech in atlanta devot all of seven sentenc to u.s. security. (his boldest line -- that drug are more of a threat than the sandinista -- was a rewrit of jess jackson.) 
 it a bizarr idea: "leav it to beaver" with a new cast (say tom selleck and suzann somer as ward and june, and emmanuel lewi as the beaver).think of "gilligan island" as america "macbeth," a show you'd want to see again and again, with differ thespian give their own person interpret of immort line like "gee, skipper." 
 a magazin ad for lee has a graini appear and show a nighttim scene in which a blond in tight-fit jean lean against a 1950s-vintag covertible.th copi line: "place to go. 
 "we believ the yield on the long-term treasuri bond could fall below 7% in late 1989 and perhap declin signific in later years," say martin j. mauro, manag of research.but to mani analysts, the yardeni outlook end with the last line of a nurseri rhyme -- "and the dish ran away with the spoon." 
 if he look for other ideas, there are republican who might have some.sen. ted kennedi of all peopl actual stole a gop line, in atlanta, when he said democrat "are commit to the ideal that all of us can advanc togeth -- and none shall be left behind."th man who has said that for years, who call it his "good shepherd line," is jack kemp. 
 "it make us sound inferior," mr. mackenzi says, "and yet diet coke has been reformul at least as mani time as diet pepsi."cok say nbc has ask it to delet the controversi reformul line from ani futur taste-test ad and that it will compli with that request. 
 over a plate of red, white and green pasta -- the color of the italian flag -- he explain how mass-market retail fit in with these schemes.advertis on his three nation televis network could add line like "avail at the standa," to their sale pitches, he says, share the ad cost with the depart store. 
 but congressman richard gephardt of missouri, a rival for the democrat nomination, onc charg that the massachusett governor foreign polici experi was limit "to negoti with new hampshir gov. sununu over a nuclear power plant."in an otherwis strong performance, mike dukaki did littl last week to prevent georg bush from steal that line dure this campaign. 
 the gimmick?h has no voice, so he won't have to speak ani dumb lines. 
 the intent is to blur ideology, contrast the massachusett governor ethnic past and his record as an execut with mr. bush elit upbring and his recent servic in the shadow of presid reagan.each line the dukaki campaign etch into it portrait of the candid is suppos to produc a contrast with mr. bush. 
 ad for pro penn emphas they'r more durabl than regular penns.for instance, beneath a print ad featur a shot of a doghous is the line: "pro penn go to the dog 30% slower." 
 "it is time for america . . . to reassert progress valu and reinvest in it people," it says, but onli "within a strong commit to fiscal responsibility."th democrat do take a rhetor bow to the rev. jackson stump-speech line about "econom violenc against poor and work people," but they reject his propos to rais tax on "the veri richest americans" or to freez defens spending. 
 who would have guess women and wit were part of the democrat parti of 1988."georg bush was born with a silver foot in his mouth" is the onli memor line to come out of this convent so far. 
 it share of the bar-soap market slid to about 11% from 17%.it has rebound a bit to 13.5%, however, sinc the compani return to the "aren't you glad you use dial?" line a few year ago. 
 it has rebound a bit to 13.5%, however, sinc the compani return to the "aren't you glad you use dial?" line a few year ago.sara lee corp. walk away from the line "nobodi doesn't like sara lee" and experi with other jingl that never quit caught on with consumers. 
 anybodi who know anyth about polit convent know that the affair cannot truli move forward until a single, wri line from david brinkley defin it, as he has sinc the begin of time (meaning, of course, sinc the begin of television). 
 it also claim to have score a market share victori in the intensifi orang juic wars.tropicana, a unit of seagram co., brought suit against atlanta-bas coca-cola over a line use in advertis for coca-cola new minut maid premium choic orang juic that describ the pasteur product as "orang juic straight from the orange." 
 some say 70%.as the reader ponder these lines, at least three out of 10 boat peopl just set out to sea will most probabl not make landfall. 
 divid up among various member of the cast in what seem a deliber random fashion, it is use to suggest mean without ever state them.much of it is spoken by a pair of narrat (sheryl sutton and phillipp chemin), who, from a place at the side of the stage, inton their line in voic that, at onc expressionless and intimate, have less to do with explan than with ritual. 
 tropicana product inc. fire anoth volley in the orang juic wars, accus coca-cola co. food divis of fals and decept advertis in a lawsuit file in u.s. district court in new york.at issu is a line use in advertis for coca-cola new minut maid premium choic orang juic that describ the pasteur product as "orang juic straight from the orange."bradenton, fla.-bas tropicana, a unit of seagram co., claim the line violat an earlier appeal court rule in favor of atlanta-bas coca-cola against tropicana. 
 ms. keeton say her market depart design the ad, but she was the one who made the decis to sustain the suspens throughout the ad.originally, she says, the first line of the ad was, "of cours she not realli 70." 
 but she thought, "whi wast it?so i got rid of the line." 
 the "three week of stagnation," as the period between the two articl is now known in the soviet union, show perestroika for what it truli is: a parti line -- no less but no more either.a better line, to be sure, a line one can support with greater sincer than most other line -- but a line nevertheless. 
 the three week of stagnat indic how far mr. gorbachev may have to go in erad the curs of soviet and russian reformers.that curs is best express by pushkin immort close line of "bori godunov": "the peopl are silent." 
 the text are often shorten to make the book cheaper to produce, leav a skeleton of the origin story.mr. lang note that there are at least 10 heavili illustr edit of the snow white stori in which the whole tale is told in 12 pages, with onli a few line on each. 
 newspap editor onli seem cavali when they dump your favorit comic strip -- the one you'v been follow faith for 23 year -- and substitut some dumb cartoon with stupid gag line and chicken-scratch drawings. 
 it is the world lead corpor raider talking, address the crowd on finance.on almost expects, at some point, to hear that unnerv line, greed is good. 
 fight back, texaco manag have adopt a slogan: "we'v got the energy."it sound more like a line, some say, that a tv network would use to tout it fall lineup. 
 other think the texaco boast is a rather bold claim for a compani that run out of oil.in ani case, mr. icahn has his own line for texaco: "catch a fall star." 
 accord to a new studi by michael cunningham, a univers of louisvill psychologist, the magic formula is a simpl "hi," follow by someth equal innocuous, such as "what do you think of the band?"although few men realiz it, calcul clever come-on turn most women off, prof. cunningham says. (he note that when it come to women pursu men, however, just about ani open line will do-except, perhaps, "you remind me of someon i use to date.") 
 to gather this wisdom, prof. cunningham first sent oper out into the field to test a varieti of convers starter on the patron of chicago singl bars.then, in a lab setting, he gaug the reaction of 40 men and 47 women to specif lines, includ "would you like to listen to my compact disks?"particip were ask to rate one anoth accord to 13 criteria as they use the lines: did the speaker seem shrewd or naive? 
 would the speaker make a good parent or not?"peopl realli do make almost instantan judgment of a person personality" base on open lines, maintain prof. cunningham. 
 lesli thomas, a junior at pennsylvania state university, agre that a straight approach is general best."i don't think line work," she says. 
 somewhat tamer than the previous midler-disney collaborations, "big business" is still peppi enough.a citi sadie, the corpor queen, ms. midler get the most pointed, and the funniest, lines, which she deliv like the season pro she is. 
 though della femina is onli a fraction of the size of giant like young & rubicam and ogilvi & mather, mr. della femina flair has garner the agenc more than it share of headlines.mr. della femina becam a fixtur on tv news report about acquir immun defici syndrome, for example, after his agenc creat the line, "i enjoy sex, but i'm not readi to die for it," for lifestyl condoms. 
 the dukaki peopl are go to need all the help they can get.instruct is an ail line -- a bit of hyperbole, no doubt -- that mr. goodman say he will never forget. 
 mark twain got a laugh when he call rumor of his death "exaggerated."th line wouldn't have been near so good if he had simpli label them untrue. 
 shakespear famous line about kill the lawyer may have been superseded. 
 take, for example, the subject of this week discuss -- the hero adventure.in one eleg line, mr. campbel link the celtic knight, wander in the forest, to telemachus, set off to find his father, to moses, climb the mountain. 
 mr. sullivan didn't return call seek comment.ms. bruck appar ad a line stipul that femal drexel employees, as well as other women, were present, but she didn't retreat from her other statement on the subject of call girls. 
 neither the program nor the critic review mention the name of the young woman who turn the page for the piano accompanist.she, too, was superb, perform a most difficult job; there were sever passag where she had to turn the page back for a repeat of sever line of music. 
 and i can tell you that i'm an absolut nervous wreck everi time she performs.i have her practic the last two line on each page, so i can learn exact when to turn the page -- just one of the trick to this trade that i'v learn the hard way. 
 there is someth to be said for experienc shakespear view of the king who rule england between the 1390s and 1485 as a unit, watch the same actor grow from the layabout princ hal into the heroic henri v, the same actress move from the blush bride of henri vi to the embitt hag who curs richard iii.it interest to hear the line summar event of the past while they are still fresh imprint on your mind by the play you saw just a few hour before. 
 the play are not so much updat as they are de-dated; and although mr. bogdanov is clear tri to make this old news seem fresher to contemporari audiences, they nonetheless tend to snicker when they first notic the comput termin or the plastic shop bag that has crop up without warning.th fact is that audienc don't need such gimmicki "relevance" if they are given clear, care thought-out line read coincid with care plan stage movement. 
 in a follow-up show, he point to two addict and say if they tri to rob his house, "i'd blow their head off."both line get wild applaus from the audience. 
 the sec said that the debartolo have been uncooperative, and had heavili redact document that the sec requested.among the exhibit attach by the sec is one full page label "bilzerian-hammermil closing" in which all but three line were delet by the debartolo or their lawyers. 
 most of his republican colleagu are cower wimpish befor organ labor tv-ad onslaught.thi bit of demagogi featur a line about golden parachut for the boss and noth for the worker -- as if there were somewher a law mandat golden parachutes, or prohibit labor from seek whatev notif and sever procedur it want through collect bargaining. 
 she best with the minor actors, who have the best parts.ms. brennan get the funniest line. 
 everyon jump on larri speak for his confess that he put word into the mouth of presid reagan without even bother to tell him.on can certain jump on mr. speak for his appar unawar of the enorm of his transgression, at least to judg by the throwaway line in which he describ the dirti deed. 
 instead, govern offici threw up their hand and claim indirect trade was beyond their control.th new offici line is that onc taiwan product leav the island, the govern has no say over where they go. 
 nice, clean american kid will be free of this foreign impos evil.th mexican who write these line has been accus of be a gringo lover. 
 "i see no reason whi this cours should not be followed," rep. ted weiss comment predictably.consum advoc sidney wolf recit a familiar line from memory: "american famili are too import to be left to a reagan administr that seem to give defer to the drug industry." 
 last fall, befor most of it experienc player ran out of eligibility, it won three major competit in a row, lose final to texa a&m in novemb at the super bowl of meat judging, the international, held in ibp inc. meat cooler at dakota city, neb.that got illinoi some good press in trade public like meat plant magazin and drover journal, but nari a line in the daili illini, the school newspaper. 
 the page show the eleg interior of an expens car.there, just slight to the northeast of the leather-cov steer wheel, and west southwest of the burl walnut dashboard trim, are six line from the second vers of the marvel poem. 
 there, just slight to the northeast of the leather-cov steer wheel, and west southwest of the burl walnut dashboard trim, are six line from the second vers of the marvel poem.w know that these line are by none other than andrew marvel becaus the name of the poet appear at the end where the author name is customarili found in poetic quotations. 
 it is just one interpret of many."h goe on: "if, in the line from marvel the garden, the car manufactur had determin that this line is imperfect in their own view of what was necessary, then they could argu that inde they were mere perfect the poem and that marvel would see that this was a better version for this particular purpos than the one he had in fact written. 
 it certain not an unpreced condition.mani famous text have been chang in the transmiss in order to give more mean to the origin lines." 
 aileen ward, schweitzer professor of the human at new york university, also was enraged."chang the word innoc to comfort is a dread comment on the trade-off between the real inspir of marvel and the debas standard that his line are be twist to uphold." 
 but i don't realli consid it a veri grave infring of morality."al the critics, however, seem to believ that the line "transmitted" by mr. macdonald in his advertis campaign are somehow inferior to the version that appear in anthologies. 
 surely, for soviet audiences, jim is even more of an exot charact than amanda, sinc young men of 24 here tend to be frighten cynic about their prospects.moreover, jim line about power and money be the point of democraci got a huge appreci laugh here, as it is the veri stuff of mikhail gorbachev "perestroika." 
 the exchang are disjointed, quirky, vivid, fill with harold pinter paus and emot as genuin as the blacktop.and line by line, bit by bit, the charact of the cop develop (even if it is in super slow-mo, requir week of watching). 
 he even talk like the other policemen: the anc, he says, is control by communist and manipul by moscow, which want to turn south africa into a marxist state.but peter and his fellow anc defector can go beyond that standard rhetor with a line that is much more valuabl to the police: "if i would see my younger relat join the anc," he says, "i'd tell him to go back home, that he shouldn't go through the same thing i did." 
 and if you don't, larri speak will."a white hous aid (anonym of course) say the presid ad lib the speak line. 
 fan of the first season will recal a similar scene in which cliff instruct theo on the valu of a dollar by hand him a roll of play money and then take back a few bill everi time theo list anoth necess of his propos bachelor lifestyle.to compar these scene is to conclud that theo is still brash, the line are still clever, mr. cosbi can still clown his way through worthwhil parent lessons, and the show still has a drolli astut tone. 
 she was just "discovered," deliv her actor boyfriend resum to a talent agent.now she is suppos to read two lines: "i'm the new clean lady" and "i can't work here -- this place is a mess." 
 now she is suppos to read two lines: "i'm the new clean lady" and "i can't work here -- this place is a mess."unfortunately, ms. schroeder forget first one line, then the other. 
 the fabric have been around for years, but have "slip into low profile" and lost ground to minnesota mine & manufactur co. better-known scotchgard treatment, accord to cynthia gray, a du pont public specialist.du pont believ women today care less about have a spotless sofa -- the old promot line -- and more about carefre live styles, she says. 
 in earli 1987, mr. steinhardt bad lag the market.then, he bought the bull line that overvalu stock could go higher. 
 oklahoma basketbal coach billi tubb like a good straight line as well as he doe run up score on opponents, so at a press confer the day befor his team play kansa in the ncaa championship game here monday night he brighten when he was ask if he thought god might be on kansa side in the showdown to come. 
 listen to the left itself cheer.in the new republ last month, barbara ehrenreich, co-chair of the democrat socialist of america, quot approv a line that what the democrat need is "a littl class warfare." 
 speak from the chicago offic of centel lawyers, mr. fraze said his compani adopt a sharehold right plan last august that basic give the compani time to consid takeov propos and also protect against two-tier offers.borrow a line from corpor raiders, mr. fraze said: "our goal is to increas sharehold value, and we believ we have an outstand record in that regard." 
 philip reiss, an attorney for wpp, said the memo was found late tuesday in the file of sever of the depart directors.th document, which appear to be a comput printout and isn't dated, has a line at the top state it is from ed yaconetti, the former chief oper offic of lord geller, to the agenc manag committee. 
 journalist linda ellerbe recal in her book, "and so it goes," read news on televis about the collis of two jumbo jet on tenerif in the canari islands.sh write that she end the report "with a poignant line about 576 peopl whose vacat had end in death." 
 in frustration, mr. wanniski says, he and a few alli rais $10,000 on their own to buy a four-pag newspap spread in charleston, s.c., befor last saturday primary.th spread stress mr. kemp optimist vision of lower taxes, more jobs, opportun for the poor through greater choice, and "move america forward but leav no one behind," mr. kemp "good shepherd" line. 
 he also has creat two attractive, articul charact and he has been most fortun in have them brought to life by accomplish performers.a andrey, robert prosky, a consumm charact actor, has the lion share of the good line and he deliv them with easi relish. 
 when east german erect the berlin wall in 1961, the social democrat willi brandt, then berlin mayor, compar their action with the creation of a nazi-styl concentr camp.but today mani social democrat are welcom gorbachev social with a line that sounds, to american ears, as if it were written from moscow. 
 but uglif is rampant, water shortag loom and suburban traffic is gridlocked, as a crazi quilt of 42 municip govern doe littl to control growth.in the south smaller boom cities, like nashvill and charlotte, the standard line is, "we don't want to be anoth atlanta." 
 in the aftermath of his victori in the south dakota primari and the minnesota caucuses, mr. dole say the campaign might now be abl to put the "p" back."w have a whole new case of bail wire," he explains, in the kind of humor line he simpli can't resist. 
 mr. robertson is not the onli modern expon of crackpopulism; democrat jess jackson and richard gephardt have made serious bid for the crackpopulist vote as well.mr. robertson attempt to eras his past is understandable. (his latest campaign brochur contain sever line of biograph inform but doesn't mention his career as an evangelist. 
 when sir geoffrey ask me that, i said it was all there in our statement.but he ask me "what your best point?" -- he ask me that repeatedly, until i got fed up with him, and i said this is not fair, it not the sort of thing you can answer with one line. 
 the gore tactic limit mr. hart opportun to seiz the stage.though more forc than in last week iowa debate, the colorado democrat went on the defens earli when nbc newsman and debat moder john chancellor character his re-entri into the race with the old song line, "will you love me in decemb as you do in may?" 
 and of cours he could alway simpli start veto bill on explicit procedur grounds, reject those with non-german rider even if it mean close the government.it would be a much less radic act, stephen glazier observes, simpli to cross out a line of some bill and let the court decid whether a presid alreadi has a line-item veto. 
 as for "strang interlude" be more "detailed" than a soap opera, i wonder.th play is famous for have it charact speak their "thoughts" along with their line -- a devic that succeed technic in the film, due to the skill of the cast and a soundtrack filter that distinguish between their speak and "thinking" voices. 
 in a meet on how to trim fat from the budget, omb director miller down an entir two-pound bag of m&ms. . . .jokest suggest this open line for sen. biden next week when he meet neil kinnock, the british politician whose word he cribbed: "stop me if you'v heard this one." . . . 
 the job of vice president, he says, "is insid work with no heavi lifting."hi biggest line these day goe this way: "when ronald reagan want his program pass -- when he want action on his legisl -- he doesn't call george, he call bob." 
 warner also was co-author (with mark twain) of a famous book entitl "the gild age," a label later affix to a whole generation.and he wrote other memor line for which almost nobodi credit him. 
 "it time for the opposit to come out of the street and into the system," he was fond of saying.now his line is, "i tri to come into the system, but the roh administr seem to want to push me back into the streets." 
 the jerki camera, the slide in and out of focus, the jiggl and off-cent shot that onc were consid mistak now are the basi for a style.and the scene aren't shot and re-shot: even flub line are kept in. 
 it show a back view of two young women run along a beach and practic fall out of their swim suits.th copi line: "he love my mind. 
 those familiar with mr. rudolph work and the actor he frequent use will be glad to know that keith carradine, still weari and handsome, show up as hart.geneviev bujold doe an amus turn as an unscrupul art dealer who say line like "you vex me" as onli she can. 
 perhap the most memor line in modern car advertis isn't about big engin or sleek styling, but about upholstery.th line: "rich corinthian leather." 
 "we thought we'd get a lot of factori shift workers," said robert wunderle, supermarket general economist and vice presid for public affairs."th realiti is we found out that the major of shift worker were white collar" and includ transport workers, medic servic personnel, journalist and "just plain citizen that find shop at 11 or 12 at night is a lot quicker than deal with crowd and lines." 
 perhap mr. brinkley mean his stori as a sort of allegori on how the world may end in a whimper.if so, the moral lie in a line by tennyson: "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." 
 -- it never air a televis advertis in new hampshir that might have inocul mr. dole from an imag as a big taxer in a state where opposit to tax is almost a prerequisit for election.on reason the ad never appeared: mr. dole flub a vital line in a tape session. 
 impound weren't subject to possibl overrid by congress, so they were a far greater presidenti power than a line-item veto.presid didn't need to veto budget bills, line by line or otherwise, so long as they could impound. 
 later, he introduc "oliv stone, the academi award win writer of midnight cowboy'" -- who, in fact, had noth whatev to do with that movi and who happen to be on his celebr tour of duti in vietnam while waldo salt wrote the script.most surpris of all, but altogeth typic of the avalanch of error contain in his work, is the plot summari of "network," in which mr. christensen describ anchorman peter finch cri out those deathless lines: "i'v had enough and i'm not go to take it anymore!" 
 it weird to see a great actress thrust into the middl of a sitcom, and you keep root for her to rise abov it.from time to time there are littl flash -- a toss of the head, a hand on the hip, a line deliv with vintag hepburn sarcasm. 
 they can onli hope that his friend will defend him, and that those who might critic will heed his last request, wrench for his family, and urgent for his country.in his close line, jimmi wrote, "pleas tri to understand." 
 mr. campbell, the head of pillsburi restaur businesses, is well-known by insid for an unflatt imit of mr. stafford sit stiffli at his desk and make a point by wave his glass in a predict pattern.at a general hostil meet with secur analyst last month, ronald morrow of smith barney, harri upham & co. introduc mr. stafford by use the ricki ricardo line from the "i love lucy" televis seri of the 1950s: "lucy, you got some splain to do." 
 tommi is an arbitrager, mean that he seek to exploit small differ in the line at differ books, or a favor shift in the line over time.not long ago, for example, he found that the open line had west virginia univers favor over st. joseph univers by 8 1/2 point in basketball. 
 but in each segment there too much histori and not enough incis commentari -- especi for a program that tri to be "definitive."narr line like "comedi make us laugh" don't help the caus much. 
 "they don't brag about their kid or make you watch slide of their vacations" say the headlin of one ad, which show two coupl parti together.anoth ad featur a photo of a father and his adult son and the line, "you use to hate it when he told you what to do. 
 he been grous about the theater throughout his career.thi began in earnest in 1970, when he spoke his first line on a new york stage -- someth unprint about a tulip. 
 the suit also say the men circul sexist literature, like "the smart man creed, or whi beer is better than women."on line: "after you'v had a beer, the bottl is still worth a dime." 
 in 1985, in an "nbc night news" report, he disclos that w.r. (buster) o'brien, the unsuccess republican candid for virginia attorney general, hadn't play footbal for three profession team as mr. o'brien had contended.for that portion of the story, nbc show tape of mr. o'brien at the state prison, includ stand behind bars, with a bode voice-ov say "a politician who add a phoni line to his resum could wind up with an all-expense-paid visit to a place like this." 
 the object of mr. hendra consider rant (i stop count at 163) rang from those unlucki enough to have work with him at nation lampoon, or to have done favor for him, to those humorist guilti of what he see as insuffici artist purity, the entir republican party, "stinking-rich fundamentalist scum," the sinist institut of television, the military, the rich, assort journalist and polit commentators, the middl class and the roman cathol church.with such a startl array of enemies, one might expect author hendra, who dure the 60s did stand-up comedi routin on the ed sullivan show, among other places, to get off a few good lines. 
 a more balanc comparison rise from sir isaiah berlin modern distinct between fox and hedgehog (the european equival of our porcupines).sir isaiah base his scheme of classif on a line from the greek poet archilochus: "the fox know mani things, but the hedgehog know one big thing." 
 the pop-up "sleep beauty" illustr anoth flaw in children books: no one ever proofread them."sever year past and the princess was still asleep," read one line. 
 yesterday, both politician swap joke about their speech "that they had been store up," said toni beeton, the labor parti chief broadcast officer.som in washington had lightheart specul mr. biden would greet mr. kinnock with this line: "stop me if you'v heard this one." 
 it take a littl get use to, this tv adapt of the lengthi eugen o'neil play.th charact not onli speak their lines, they also speak their thoughts. 
 mr. cathcart say he has had "a lot of fun" at kidder, ad the crack about his be a "tool-and-di man" never bother him."it was an absolut marvel line and one i use mani times," he says. 
 it symptom includ a cold sweat at the sound of debate, clammi hand in the face of congression criticism, and faint spell when someon write the word "controversy."a one unidentifi offici clear in the late stage of the diseas told the times: "baker just felt that there were some line in the speech that could be misinterpret and seiz by the press." 
 on an offic wall of the senat intellig committe hang a quot from chairman david boren, "don't hold your ticket til the show over."h onc use that line in a closed-door meet on panama, mean don't shrink from take action against manuel noriega. 
 for the second time, in a movi call "the bear," french director jean-jacqu annaud demonstr just how power pictur can be. ("quest for fire" was the first time.) to be sure, one wonder what kind of man is this, who feel compel to tri to understand the most primit long and instinct in a way that requir the most sophist appreci of visual storytelling.supposedly, he propos the movi to his producer, claud berri, in four lines: "an orphan bear cub. 
 finally, of course, the boss give in, but he still yelling: "i find myself explain anyth to teddi kennedy, you'll be chase stolen car in anchorage."in fact, throughout "mancuso fbi," we don't get word or line -- we get speeches. 
 you'r the real crimin here . . . and what you did wasn't just a murder -- it was a crime against humanity."and, at least onc a show, someon deliv the line "get off that soapbox." 
 for now, defens attorney are tight-lip about their plans.max gitter, anoth gaf defens attorney, said yesterday, "as we go in for the third time, yogi berra famous line is apt: `it deja vu all over again.'" 
 after a slick redesign, the two-year-old magazin has been relaunch this month by it parent company, keizaikai corp., the tokyo-bas compani with interest that includ financi services, book publish and a tourist agency.print in the u.s. and carri the line "the insid japan," busi tokyo octob cover stori was "the world no. 1 customer" -- japanes women. 
 rep. garcia, on trial for briberi and extortion, put statement in the congression record attribut miss vote to "schedul conflicts." . . .a gop senat fund-rais letter from sen. burn of montana is made to appear person written, and it open line is, "pleas excus my handwriting." 
 it works.mr. bartlett manag to more or less maintain molier alexandrin vers form, 12 syllabl line in rhyme couplets. 
 the new beer, introduc this week at a liquor industri convention, is import from switzerland cardin brewery.heidelberg first ad for the brand, which sibra say will compet with import light beer leader amstel light, featur the line "the best tast light beer you'v ever seen." 
 whether a cash crunch might eventu forc the compani to cut it quarter dividend, rais 36% to 75 cent a share onli a year ago, has becom a topic of intens specul on wall street sinc mr. stookey deflect dividend question in a sept. 29 meet with analysts.som view his respons -- that compani director review the dividend regular -- as noth more than the standard line from executives. 
 "an l.a. solution," explain mr. friedman.lin by line mr. friedman weari cynic can be amusing, especi when he rif on the hollywood social scheme -- the way peopl size each other up, immedi cancel the desper one who mere almost made it. 
 harri has avoid all that by live in a long island suburb with his wife, who so addict to soap opera and mysteri novel she bare seem to notic when her husband disappear for drug-seek foray into manhattan.but it doesn't take too mani line to figur harri out. 
 "when wall street turn around short after the opening, there was panic buy in paris."brok said that as the news spread that wall street was move up, trader who had call to place sell order chang their line in mid-conversation, order buy instead. 
 that issue, like racial tension in new york city, will have to cool down, not heat up, befor it can simmer.but i am suggest that they stop requir mr. mason to interrupt his classic shtik with some line about "care for other people" that would sound shmaltzi on the lip of miss america. 
 marubeni hope the movie, "china shadow," which will be about hong kong return to china control, will becom a box-offic success all over the world.to make intern success possible, the film is in english -- even the japanes actor deliv their line in english, whether or not they understand what they are saying. 
 his voic is hoars and his spur drag in the mud, but "georg dickel" slog through the drizzl and cold wind, brave shout his line in a stage shootout with a dastard gunfighter, archriv "jack daniel." 
 fatimata sanga, the elder woman cast as yaaba (which mean grandmother), is stringy, bald and toothless, yet she carri herself with an ether gracefulness.at a news conference, mr. ouedraogo said the script -- which is credit to him -- had to conform to ms. sanga inabl to rememb lines, or much of anyth else. 
 the u.s. custom servic provid you with enough fact to produc a balanc and fair article.th open line, "it sound incredible, even for a boondoggl like uncl sam," set the stage for the act to follow -- a play, in our view, with no substance. 
 pin to the wall of a larg recept room in the soviet embassi here, not far from a heroic portrait of the father of soviet communism himself, hung a poster herald the arriv in washington of the moscow circus.at the bottom in bold print was a line smack unequivoc of free enterprise: "brought to you by snuggle." 
 the roar of the sea and wind -- fieri meteor fli about in the air -- the prodigi glare of almost perpetu lightn -- the crash of the fall hous -- the ear-pierc shriek of the distressed, were suffici to strike astonish into angels.actually, the pen write those line was that of alexand hamilton. 
 for cbs even news, juan vasquez report that "the resid of st. croix are overjoy to see the soldier (1,100 militari polic dispatch by presid bush) from the mainland."th word "residents" is load and mr. vasquez wrap-up line were also unintent revealing: "for . . . tourist the nightmar is ending. 
 "mountain, i want to be in you.togeth we could grow wild and natur things," belinda wrote, among other, much -- steamier, lines. 
 to communic the "break-the-rules" ad series, burger king hire 10 music act -- includ paul shaffer and the world most danger band, crooner mel torm and blue singer john lee hooker -- and let them write their own song for radio spots.whil abandon the standard jingle, that part of the campaign will be tie togeth with the line, "sometim you just gotta break the rules." 
 but the mysteri behind that failur is one reason mr. hatch love junk mail so: it both mathemat precis (result of a mail can be measur to the hundredth of a percentag point) and complet unpredictable.when histor time co. was solicit customers, in a so-cal dri test, for civil war-rel product that didn't yet exist, the compani lawyer insist that the packag includ a microscop line note that the offer was conting on receiv enough orders.that line, the onli differ between the new mail and earlier ones, increas respons by 15%. 
 that line, the onli differ between the new mail and earlier ones, increas respons by 15%.from then on, the compani put the line on all it offers. 
 foreign trade play a veri small role in the u.s. economy.stori about u.s. export in this newspap would carri an apologet line explain that the subject realli was worth discuss even though export account for onli about 4% of the gross nation product. 
 as an attempt to link decadent, die weimar with l.a. pool cultur it was an astonish failur from a talent director.with the except of the energet marvelle cariaga as mrs. begbick and jonathan mack as jack, who gorg himself to death on raw meat, the cast deliv it line without emot or energy. 
 underneath the slick production, the smoki gray and blues, lurk some rather unstylish racism.a cop stori go, this one (written by craig bolotin and warren lewis) dredg up mani clich of the genr and invent mani new ones, most vulgar line spit out by michael dougla with a reason amount of fervor. 
 and japanes star ken takakura admir carri the burden of be the human japanese, the cop who join up with the visitor from new york.oh, yes, there a girl, play by kate capshaw, whose line seem to have been cut drastically, but not near as much as the back of her dresses. 
 con men and charlatan are so thick and so persist that they make camel driver at the pyramid look like swiss maitr d'.typically, the hustl begin with a line reminisc of the pickpocket in the movi "casablanca," who warn a bar patron, "this is a danger place, full of vultures" -- just as he reliev the mark of his wallet. 
 but after kodak second-quart profit plung 85% -- and shock wall street -- onli a tantrum, a vivid demonstr of how he want to cut costs, would suffice."ther no work the middl cours in wartime," mr. chandler asserted, borrow a line from winston churchill. 
 your aug. 17 editori page contain "the poem heard round the world," with richard f. barrett comment on edwin markham poem "the man with a hoe," inspir by millet painting.th theme is in these stir lines: 
 ---in regard to question concern the chang line in markham poem: my sourc was "the britannica librari of great american writing," edit by loui untermeyer. 
 not just after mcfour o'clock."th ad carri a line describ it as "a public servic message." 
 it offer bit of technic information.it show the writer teeter at the tip of the line of words. 
 it would present, by way of "a dispatch from the desk," someth more than dimwit illuminations.of these, there are mani in this book: "when you write, you lay out a line of words"; "put a book togeth is interest and exhilarating"; "how we spend our day is, of course, how we spend our lives. 
 his research, moreover, is sloppy.for instance, he pass along without comment the line that jim jacobs, the fighter late co-manager, was born wealthy. 
 want her film to have the aura of objectivity, ms. franklin-trout begin by adopt the pose of the network anchor.sh deliv open line that presuppos a reasonableness, a fairness, a balance: "tonight, we take you insid the territori to look at the realiti that led to the rebellion." 
 "the on-air promot schedul is the most aggress it ever been," say tom remiszewski, director of advertis and promot at abc sports.in the past week, the network has run a spot promot tonight kickoff, play up the 20th-season theme and featur mr. william sing the line, "are you readi for some football?" 
 "we set off littl comedi bomb that go off later," year later, he explains.so he put in line like "make my doggi day," introduc a pretenti francophil pooch and, when a dog is have puppies, slip in a joke about lamaz breathing. 
 ---you quot ford old line that the edsel was the first "all-new" car from detroit big three in 18 year and that ford spent $250 million to develop it (ford propaganda alway said a quarter of a billion -- it sound bigger that way). 
 unlik "imelda," donizetti "maria stuarda" of 1834 is a steadili inspired, brilliant theatric opera.donizetti imaginari encount between the two queens, mari stuart and elizabeth tudor, slowli heat up into an insult match that culmin with mari great line: "vil bastarda]" it need no translation, which is just as well sinc the album doesn't offer any. 
 mat wilander, the defend champion and no. 5 seed, was ambush by 91st-rank pete sampra in round two.then fourth-seed john mcenroe, tenni perenni bad boy (that english for enfant terrible), was mug by 115th-rank paul haarhuis, a player so obscur he rate nari a line in the game media guide. 
 but for the upscal retail barney new york, which is outfit comedian joan river for her new talk show this fall, the wardrob credit couldn't have come at a better time: barney is in the midst of a big expans beyond the new york area.design often get more than a line zoom by as the credit roll. 
 but for all the then-and-now charm, each stori has to be shoehorn into littl yesterday, today and tomorrow boxes.th fit is often awkward: in their search for a tomorrow to throw in, the produc give us such half-heart line as, "in a futur war, my lai could happen again." 
 he recal with amus the time he liter lock the offic door and dispatch all his market peopl to the field for three days.mr. sharer say he even plan to print up sign for himself and his subordin with novelist john le carr line: "a desk is a danger place from which to watch the world." 
 to emphas the surpris speed with which the chariot is about to be served, the ad signatur is, "the pizza you won't believa."in some ad the line is sung, opera-style. (burnett use opera sing to memor advantag in it current ad for cheer detergent.) 
 at a news conference, general electr co. nbc also describ the structur of it previous announc nationwid sweepstak that will award $2 million in cash and prize and give four peopl one-tim appear on new nbc prime-tim series."we'l see how well they can talk, but the goal is to give the winner at least one line {of dialogue}," said john miller, senior vice president, nbc entertainment. 
 "but he not a corpor animal, so this is perfect for him."mr. gordon himself produc this line to sum up: "as a career move, this is my field of dreams." 
 some contributors, however, are eager to associ themselv with the patriot and educ aspect of their participation.say mr. armour of american express, echo the line of other sponsors: "we love to be patriotic. 
 the author was edwin markham, a hitherto undistinguish poet who becam famous when bailey millard, the editor of the san francisco examiner, accept "the man with the hoe" for public in 1899 and it was immedi reprint all over the world.th poem was inspir by jean francoi millet famous paint of the same name, and it becam a prophecy, when markham end it with these lines: 
 markham die in 1940 at the age of 88."the man with the hoe" cannot be said to have had the impact of the "communist manifesto" of karl marx and friedrich engels, but it did preced the russian revolut of 1917, which seem to answer the question markham pose in the poem close lines. 
 at about the same time, sen. wallop also carri the argument person to mr. bush dure a flight aboard air forc one with the president, who was travel to yellowston park to make a speech.but mr. bush seem preoccupi with other concerns; back in washington sever day later, read a line insert in a speech by an aide, mr. bush said he look forward to mr. fisk arrival. 
 but no one has the same vacation."anoth spot line: "what club med? 
 bbdo servic the account for more than 30 years.it was there that copywrit jim jordan wrote the well-known "ring around the collar" line. 
 in north korea, the propaganda line still contain heavi dose of "anti-imperialism" and other, well-worn revolutionari themes.th line that draw the biggest cheer from the ever-ch crowd at the stadium is, "u.s. 
 "that was hilarious, that was so cruel," say chris kreski, the show 26-year-old head writer.backstage, mr. kreski struggl to come up with a "mom line," the night joke in which mr. ober is interrupt by the voic of his mother ask him to do some gross chore, such as trim her mustache. 
 the compani argu that it foreman needn't have told the worker not to move the plank to which his lifelin was tie becaus "that come with common sense."th commiss noted, however, that dellovad hadn't instruct it employe on how to secur their lifelin and didn't heed a feder inspector earlier suggest that the compani instal special safeti line insid the a-fram structur it was building. 
 the set, design by mr. hall longtim associ eugen lee, has the audienc divid in half, face a central play area.off to one side -- repres the "have-nots" of louisiana -- is a broken-down shack with a woodpil and a wash line. 
 the new technolog repres a consider save over convent offshor product technology.th foundat of the project, a "tension-leg well platform," will be a float structur that is anchor to the seab by steel moor lines, a design that requir far less steel than convent platform do. 
 there is noth easi about run a cruis boat in winter.it take boil water to thaw the frozen line at the clinton overnight berth so that the boat can be brought around to the passeng pier. 
 but she could use a pair of spike to help her navig the ici deck.thre time she tri to throw a dock line to the pier. 
 "give it a prolong blow."proudly, i give the green line a tug. 
 to my horror, i realiz i have pull too hard.down come the green line as the great whistl blare forth, a shrill torrent of sound that won't stop. 
 "there are grown macho men who can skin game but who won't touch an eelpout," say jeffrey gunderson, a repres of the univers of minnesota sea grant extens program, which tri to promot underus fish."they'l cut their line rather than bring it into the boat and unhook it." 
 in the slalom, skier whizz around buoy behind boat go 36 mph for the men and 34 mph for the woman (it a bigger differ than it seems, i was told), shorten their rope on everi pass until everyon got wet.jump soar for distanc off a six-foot ramp after play crack-the-whip with their tow lines. 
 but serious folks, the duval root heartili for each other on the water and are partner in a school for water-skiing-tourna aspir in windemere, fla.sammi won't tri a trick competit unless camill is there to supervis his tow line. 
 he introduc his children to the sport as toddlers, and wasn't about to take no for an answer.when camill balk at take the line at age four, she was left to ponder her choic in the middl of a lake. 
 no one and noth seem prettified.when the widow elma radnor (mari mcdonnell) matter-of-fact fill joe in on the routin mine tragedi at matewan as she hang cloth on the line, her bone-weari is palpable. 
 it is known as an aggressive, tenaci litigator.richard d. parsons, a partner at patterson, belknap, webb & tyler, liken the experi of oppos sullivan & cromwel to "have a thousand-pound tuna on the line." 
 tip off that mr. willabi is "noodling" -- catch fish illeg by snag them in the gill or flesh -- two wildlif offici follow the 250-pound fisherman out to cedar creek lake here.they watch him dive under water with a fish pole and a veri short line and catch two flathead catfish, one 25 pound and the other 30 pounds. 
 perhap not surprisingly, the local often call the warden.whil noodler general drag a line with a big hook on it through the water tri to snag a fish, mr. willabi wade along river bank and lake shore until he find hole where fat catfish are lay eggs.h dive down and poke his rod and a few inch of line with a bait hook into the nest until the fish bites. 
 it wasn't an ordinari tug of war, in which two side pull on opposit end of a length of rope.for this contest a pair of tugboat -- what else? -- haul out to midriv two 3,000-foot nylon lines, each of which was tie to a parachutelik sea anchor to increas drag. 
 a few season ago, he fell into the water wrestl with a larg catch.h hung on to his line -- and land the fish. 
 although these peopl live in big sky countri -- montana, where a town can have a name that ring with heroic confidence, great falls, sunburst, victori -- they never achiev the baptism and resurrect that natur has so often promis charact in american fiction.they may fish and hunt a little, but they'r like to feel sick about it, or bungl the job, or snag a dead deer that drown in the river befor they ever cast a line. 
 hook fli in everi direction.lin becom tangled. 
 it was a silli thought.sit in a desk chair instead of paddl a canoe, pound cursor instead of cast a line, and stare into a comput screen instead of peer into the silveri water of a still lake will never, for either dan or me, replac the natur rhythm of real fishing. 
 in june, hornbi disclos it had a 5.1% stake in manitowoc and said it may seek control of the company.manitowoc, a maker of cranes, power shovels, drag line and other products, is base in manitowoc, wis. 
 mr. coat was on the water but a few minut when he said, "here they are . . . let catch some of em."lin were lower and soon one of the rod sprang to life, and a shini bronz walley was swung on board. 
 so he sell garlic.in one of his stall in a back-alley market deep in seoul south side he sell noth but garlic: hundr of straw "chops" or line hang from the ceiling, each chop with 100 bulb of garlic attach to it, each bulb contain five to 10 cloves. 
 when the time came to launch, we were abl to paddl into a flat ocean between wave sets.then our littl fleet reassembl offshor near a kelp bed, where we learn to hook the bow line of our boat to the live kelp: you take your anchor where you find them in this life. 
 in forests, their goal is to drape their chute over the crown of a tree and slide down through the limb on let-down ropes.but "you never realli know for sure what wait for you," say john driscoll, a former smokejump who onc land flat on his back on the alaskan tundra after his chute line twist and his reserv parachut wrap around his neck. (though he wasn't hurt, "i can still rememb everi second of it -- look up to see the line twist and my parachut a worthless balloon over my head," he says.) 
 glassmast co., lexington, s.c., start trade with the symbol glma.th compani make glass-fib pleasur boats, monofila line and antennas. 
 "this is not government-dict planning," mr. webber says."it use govern as a product partner -- a catalyst -- instead of a drag on the line." 
 so the shark must use stealth to approach it victim from unseen angles.short after 6 p.m., the shark grab a final tuna-head snack off a line and glide off into the gloom. 
 they can, however, be sum up simply: never think of your limit or distant goals; keep tell yourself to go just a littl farther.if the daedalus pilot doe run out of steam, though, he can toss a line to a chase boat, which in theori will be abl to keep the aircraft aloft by pull it to shore like a giant kite. 
 at the best of the local hotels, the door was alreadi lock at 7:30 in the evening.aft sever rings, the proprietor reluct show his guest to a rooftop cell with concret wall and floor, a pile of flea-ridden mattresses, no sheets, two nake bulbs, and a laundri line strung with damp clothes. 
 "grandfath believ in the straight-and-simpl method of fishing.just a basic green line wrap around a wooden rack with cloth from an old shirt or handkerchief use as lure." 
 about three year ago, he near gave up becaus he had noth to sell.now his shelv are full, and towel and cloth hang from a line overhead. 
 mani lobster are aliv and well and live in lost traps, say univers of main researchers.dur the past two years, the scientist have studi "ghost lobster traps" -- lost one that sit on the ocean floor after line to them are sever by storms, pass boat and other strains. 
 self-contain littl villages, the lot of them made up what was for the week a citi rank somewher between the 10th and 15th largest in montana.in camp, draft hors were tether to their wagons, while ride hors and pack hors were set up in temporari corral or hitch to rope line some distanc from the circles. 
 "a two-pound bass on a fly-rod is more fun than a six-pound on a bait-cast rod," said mr. kruger."becaus the rod is so long and you hold the line direct in your fingers, you can feel everi littl fin vibrat a bass makes." 
  " there none there . " he hurri outsid to see if there were ani dri one on the line .
  not too young , i'd say . a new set of nappi sudden appear on the line would certain set the neighbour chatter .
  and the neighbour seem to be veri nice . one had been hang cloth on her line while they were in the backyard and they had got to talk , and she had invit them in for a cup of tea .
  as the two hindus took in the sail , the old man use the last of the boat way to lay alongsid the starboard gangway . jackson , boatswain mate of the watch , took a line , and shout for side boy .
  men tumbl from their station along the deck and the sail spill their wind . below him , he could see the proa , shatter but still afloat , against the starboard bow , men scrambl up line they somehow had manag to attach to rapid .
  lifelin had been fasten across the deck . the two quartermast at the wheel had taken turn of line about their waist and secur the end to ringbolt in the deck .
  their task of keep the bow into the sea had been eas by the sea anchor , but they must still be alert for everi plung movement of the ship . mereweth took a turn of line about himself and fasten it to the weather shroud .
  he could see the crumpl form lie on the deck , spray drive into him , in danger of be wash over the side . mereweth tri to loosen the line that secur him to the shroud and make his way forward to give assist .
  we pass some crumbl hous on the left . the cloth on the line were fli in the wind .
  he didn't catch mani fish , but it hard matter . with his line out and his pole prop in the damp sand , he sat for hour stare at the atlant .
  they were soon becalm and were wait for help when a fish boat appear . without a word the skipper threw the girl a line and began to tow them to shore .
  " catch much ? " carlo threw his line into the water .
  " sometim . " carlo gave his line a tug and then felt it ooz back into the water .
  a whole worm look huge in comparison . a sharp tug at his line made him straighten up sudden . " hey , i got a fish , " he shout , jerk the line through the water . and then sudden there was no weight on the end of the line ..
  when he pull up the hook , it was pick clean . he stood watch it swing slowli back and forth on the end of his line .
  " they'r too smart for you , " he said , and he chuckl . drew start to tell him about some trick he use , but carlo turn his back and rebait his line .
  he didn't need help from that smart aleck . out of the corner of his eye he could see drew steadili draw in his line .
  " catch anyth ? " the leader ask . " just one , " drew answer , point to the fish he had tie up on a line float in the water .
  top load automat washer with essenti cycl and temperatur control , soap or deterg , bleach , water soften , starch , laundri . discuss type of machin dryer , cloth line , cloth pin , cloth pin bag , cloth line support ; type of fabric and color , line space avail , and weather condit . wet laundri in cloth basket , cloth line , cloth pin , cloth pin bag . when wash is dri , remov from line , articl by articl , place pin in bag .
  but between the two of us we somehow got it launch , then load it with blanket , clean diaper and the last of the milk . i sat down in the bow hold the babi , while sidney unti the line and push us out into the current with a paddl .
  it swirl around under the cach and knock over the fish rack , and still it kept rise . dad clung to the line until the boat was level with the top of the cabin door .
  but the loathsom ooz stop just short of his knee . he releas a buoy which carri his ascend line to the surfac , and test the lung . then he start up the line .
  the boat eas alongsid , and the buoy was ginger haul on deck . while one line was fasten around a cleat , command wilkin reach insid for the phone , and a moment later was say , " hello , squalus , this is sculpin .
  the strain had been too great . somewher along the line the strand were part , and at ani minut the cabl might snap complet .
  torpedoman 1st class jess duncan was lower to hook up the new cabl . but as he follow the wire down , his line got foul in those belong to the chamber .
  the chamber was off the bottom . wave were now run some five feet , so the men haul in on the line went with the motion of falcon , let out a littl whenev she rose , pull in as she dip .
  i hope they hadn't come for dinner . it was go to be import for us to stay togeth , so i unwrap the line from my waist , and we tie a length to each raft .
  i had held back the intestin to use for bait . cherri weight his line with a ring and drop a hook overboard .
  it was a mackerel , about 12 inch long . i threw my line out and land a small sea bass .
  strong gust of wind were churn up the ocean . the raft were bob up and down , jerk against the line that held us togeth .
  but thing quick becam bleak again . we enter anoth dri period , and shark carri away our line befor we could catch ani more edibl fish .
  mrs. smith was stand look out of the window , which open on the water . in the distanc a pair of white sailboat were skim along on the breez , and closer at hand a water skier was weav in an intric pattern at the end of a line attach to a motorboat .
  " we'll bring the bristol in , " he call , indic a motorboat sway on it moor . dick wave that he understood , then lower his water ski to the sand and start to uncoil a tangl line , toss an end to alan carlisl .
  set apart by a white picket fenc , a neat littl hous sat secur on a patch of green lawn . but the truck hadn't stop , and as they pass she had notic that cloth were blow on a line behind the hous .
  when robin came out of the orchard onto the dirt road of the villag she met the girl with the black braid again . the mexican girl was hang up cloth on a line behind the last cabin in the row .
  " you came here to fish , " said galkin . " put your line in the water , then sit down and tell me all about yourself . "
  " veri good , " said galkin . he stood up and began reel in his line .
  not onli that , but the midget sub was about to pull the motor launch down , too . " cut the line ! "
  " courtship in the night are also intrigu . the male web-weav spider woo the femal in her web with a seri of tug and tweak on her line .
  it was true that there were no spike in papyrus boat . instead , a block of wood was made fast with rope on top of the reed bundl , and the mast was step into it and secur with line .
  a stay ran to the bow , but none to the stern . instead , a seri of harp-lik line were secur from the top of the mast to the side of the craft , extend about two third of the way back .
  later i spoke to georg , point out that on this voyag no one was oblig to clean up after anyon els . short afterward georg fish tackl , tape record and dirti cloth had been pick off the deck and cabin roof , and he and carlo began haul on the same line togeth .
  no one had the heart to kill it , howev , so it was spare and christen sinbad . with a line tie to it foot , it becam master of the foredeck , while safi kept to the cabin area .
  the brute fought for a moment until the water foam about it tail . the line snap , and the shark disappear into the depth .
  now and then ra heel so violent that everyon grip the stay and hung outboard as a counterweight . the duck was wash overboard on it line time after time , and in the worst of the chao it broke a leg , which yuri later had to set .
  littl knot of men swarm over each boat , take off the canva cover , clear the mast and useless paraphernalia , put in lantern and tin of biscuit . other men stood at the davit , fit in crank and uncoil the line .
  the davit creak , the pulley squeal , and the boat slowli swung out free of the ship . next , a few feet of line were paid out , so that each boat would lie flush with the boat deck ... or , in some case , flush with promenad deck a direct below .
  then he realiz he needn't tri ani longer the boat was float off . he jump in ... cut the stern line ... yell for someon to free the bow ... and in the next instant was wash out by the same wave that swept off peter dali .
  they came sputter to the surfac , abelseth hopeless snarl in some rope from somewher . he had to free his hand to untangl the line , and his cousin and brother-in-law were wash away .
  miss eusti has a somewhat differ version : " one man was drunk and had a bottl of brandi in his pocket , which the quartermast prompt threw overboard , and the drunken man was thrown into the bottom of the boat ... " there was a differ kind of troubl in boat 6 . friction erupt from the moment major peuchen slid down the line to fill out the crew .
  the onli sound was a wail babi somewher in the boat . line were drop , and now the boat was fast .
  hugh woolner shout as 14 sail up . low toss over a line and gave them a tow .
  he could feel the cage move as it strain against the lash at each roll . what he could not see was how the constant work of the cage was wear the line thin where it was tie to the rail . a big sea , a heavi roll , and the line final part . with the next roll the cage slid a foot , then was stop by the slacken line . on the follow roll the cage slid back a foot and ben great weight behind it shot the cage forward and snap the remain line .
  the boat roll again , and the cage slid away from the winch . the men ran with line , shout , tri to get the line around the cage to snub it tight against the rail . befor they could tighten their line , the cage jerk free , shot across the deck , and struck the winch a mighti timber-shatt blow that cave in one side of the cage .
  all anim life was new and full of wonder for jim as much as for chet , and he long to see a fish , to touch it scali side , to examin it gill . but when ten minut had pass without a nibbl on chet line , jim start to give up hope .
  jim ran to his father , who was studi the ice near the edg of the water , and call , " ted got london on the radio , dad ! " they gather around all but chet , who went on dangl his line stolid as though the entir success of their journey depend on his luck as a fisherman .
  chet ignor the banter . he peer into the dark water as though tri to hocus fish onto his line with sheer will power .
  he peer into the dark water as though tri to hocus fish onto his line with sheer will power . sudden he stiffen and tug at the line .
  " mayb you'v caught a whale ! " the shine line came up out of the water .
  chet stare in dismay . a wriggl , flop creatur no more than five inch long dangl from the end of his line .
  may 31 . we start down anoth canyon , and reach rapid made danger by high rock lie in the channel ; so we run ashor , and let our boat down with line .
  we name the group triplet fall . we make a portag around the first ; past the second and third we let down with line .
  at such a place , we are let down the last boat , and , as she is set free , a wave turn her broadsid down the stream , with the stem , to which the line is attach , from shore , and a littl up . they haul on the line to bring the boat in , but the power of the current , strike obliqu against her , shoot her out into the middl of the river .
  they haul on the line to bring the boat in , but the power of the current , strike obliqu against her , shoot her out into the middl of the river . the men have their hand burn with the friction of the pass line ; the boat break away , and speed , with great veloc , down the stream .
  on examin , i find a horizont crevic in the rock , about ten feet abov the water , and a boat length below us , so we let her down to that point . one of the men clamber into the crevic , in which he can just crawl ; we toss him the line , which he make fast in the rock , and now our boat is tie up .
  june 22 . still make short portag and let down with line .
  we run two or three rapid after they have been care examin . then we have a seri of six or eight , over which we are compel to pass by let the boat down with line .
  this afternoon , we find three fall in close success . we carri our ration over the rock , and let our boat shoot over the fall , check and bring them to land with line in the eddi below .
  our run today is through a canyon , with rag , broken wall , mani later gulch or canyon enter on either side . the river is rough , and occasion it becom necessari to use line in pass rocki place .
  to us who are below , it seem imposs to keep the boat from go under the overhang cliff ; but powel , for the moment , heedless of bradley mishap , pull with all his power for half a dozen stroke , when the danger is past ; then he seiz bradley , and pull him in . the men in the boat abov , see this , land , and she is let down by line .
  held in this way , the men are abl to pull her into a cove , in the left wall , where she is made fast . but this leav a man on the rock abov , hold to the line of the littl boat .
  but this leav a man on the rock abov , hold to the line of the littl boat . when all is readi , he spring from the rock , cling to the line with one hand , and swim with the other , and we pull him in as he goe by .
  in one , the " emma dean " is caught in a whirlpool , and set spin about ; and it is with great difficulti we are abl to get out of it , with the loss of an oar . at noon , anoth is made ; and on we go , run some of the rapid , let down with line past other , and make two short portag .
  then we let down anoth boat to the end of it line beyond the first , and the third boat to the end of it line below the second , which bring it to the head of the fall , and under an overhang rock . then the upper boat , in obedi to a signal , let go ; we pull in the line , and catch the nearest boat as it come , and then the last .
  then we go , glide by hill and ledg , with distant wall in view ; sweep past sharp angl of rock ; stop at a few point to examin rapid , which we find can be run , until we have made anoth five mile , when we land for dinner . then we let down with line , over a long rapid , and start again .
  we land at it mouth , and stop for an hour or two to examin the fall . it seem possibl to let down with line , at least a part of the way , from point to point , along the right-hand wall .
  on the shore of this littl eddi there is about two feet of gravel beach abov the water . stand on this beach , some of the men take the line of the littl boat and let it drift down against anoth project angl . here is a littl shelf , on which a man from my boat climb , and a shorter line is pass to him , and he fasten the boat to the side of the cliff . then the second one is let down , bring the line of the third .
  in this way , curious littl alcov are form , in which are quiet bay of water , but on a much smaller scale than the great bay and buttress of marbl canyon . the river is still rapid , and we stop to let down with line sever time , but make greater progress as we run ten mile .
  it is with no littl misgiv that we see the river enter these black , hard wall . at it veri entranc we have to make a portag ; then we have to let down with line past some ugli rock .
  find i am caught here , suspend 400 feet abov the river , into which i should fall if my foot fail , i call for help . the men come , and pass me a line , but i cannot let go of the rock long enough to take hold of it .
  we can climb it , and walk along it summit to a point where we are just at the head of the fall . here the basalt is broken down again , so it seem to us , and i direct the men to take a line to the top of the cliff , and let the boat down along the wall . one man remain in the boat , to keep her clear of the rock , and prevent her line from be caught on the project angl .
  she is in swift water , and they are not abl to pull her back ; nor are they abl to go on with the line , as it is not long enough to reach the higher part of the cliff , which is just befor them ; so they take a bight around a crag . i send two men back for the other line .
  i stand on a project rock , wave my hat to gain his attent , for my voic is drown by the roar of the fall . just at this moment , i see him take his knife from it sheath , and step forward to cut the line .
  but he is in a whirlpool . we have the stem-post of his boat attach to the line .
  behind our hous in the laundri , mari and tessi spent their monday on two side of a big iron tabl , pass over the sheet an iron heat by a littl coal stove . outsid the laundri in a small mosquitoey backyard , bath suit hung etern on the line ; there was a big coal bin by the fenc .
  how to hunt anim . how to catch fish without a hook and line or net .
  a wide stream up which launch and small ship move back and forth ? where peopl on this hot saturday morn would be drift idl in littl boat , trail line in the water , fish the sandi bottom ?
  " but it was a littl longer than that , though at last they were there a farm and it farmyard , lightless . the stranger stop the hors and hand picklock the line .
  what do you want me to do ? " broke in eugen eager , interrupt vautrin . " almost noth at all , " rejoin he , allow a movement of joy to escap him , inexor as the express of the angler who feel a fish at the end of his line . "
  but if anyth happen to you , they could use you for seed . " the soldier now return with a long line and tie all three firm togeth , also lash them to the bodi of the saw-hors ; so there seem littl danger of their tumbl off . "
  he bait his fish hook , swung his pole , and watch where the bait hit the water and start to sink . almost at onc he felt a tug on his line .
  then pete heard ron voic . he pull in his line and put his pole between the rock where the wind couldn't reach it .
  at all other time they care avoid our hen , even to the point as has been often the case of walk right through a cluster of them , look as smug self-right as you could imagin . at other time , both dog fox and vixen have walk slowli under the clotheslin as cloth were be hung , and blown flap , and the wheel of the line connect with a tree was squeak loud .
  the coast guard was call about the dead dolphin . they came in a cutter and tie a line to it tail and began tow the bodi seaward .
  so , on this cool day in late march , i set to work . i engag a cooper clam digger for the use of his boat in help me secur a line to the tail .
  i well rememb a particular incid : i came upon the two older boy fish in the late even at the side of the pond . two grown men were rig like wireless station with everi imagin kind of fish line and fish lure , have fun for themselv .
  the children are in a tree hous high on the west hill . they have a peril hung rope ladder which they tell me adult cannot climb . ( and i believ them , for the rope are the old line from our ancient catboat . )
  kuktoy had live on the island all of his life and had weather more trial than i'd ever heard about . as a young man , kuktoy had three of his finger rip out of their socket by get them foul in a rawhid harpoon line and had doctor them himself .
  the stunt perform on the rope were the most interest to me , howev . the tight stretch line serv as a horizont bar ; it had just enough spring to allow the contest to combin their strength , nimbl , and sens of time into an astonish array of acrobat trick .
  fasten secur to the pin is a barbless hook similar to a fisherman gaff . throw the pin-lik float , with rawhid line attach , over and beyond the dead anim , the hunter drag it back across his prize , snag it with the sharp hook .
  then he was stop abrupt a third time . the hunter gave the line an angri jerk onli to be pull savag backward onto the seat of his sealskin pant .
  your father was never fond of fish , so he didn't stock the lake . when i was a youngster i was use to wast hour hope cast a line on to it , until my uncl gentl broke it to me that there were no trout in it .
  in march it is wise to clean cupboard , and cabinet . the closet need a good air and all the cloth need to be hung on the line in the backyard .
  the big shrimp boat on the end of the float nearest the mouth of the boat basin seem to bear the brunt of the flood . it rode taut on it line , press against the float .
  although the larg shrimp boat was without a crew , there were men on some of the smaller salmon boat . derrick could hear shout , groan , curs , as men push with pike pole , struggl with line , labor over balki engin in an effort to escap .
  jack clement slow the engin to make his dock approach . the chang of pace brought the other up , and emil came into the pilothous while the two crewmen went to bow and stern , readi to make the line fast to the dock .
  without the shelter of the small boat harbor , they were piti vulner to the gale that drove into the bay from the open sea . unless they had stout anchor line and plenti of scope , they would be in troubl .
  they use dog bone to make small hook , pig bone for the medium size , and human bone for larg fish hook . hawaiian fishermen jig with line fit with a stone sinker bound to a cowrie-shel lure to catch octopus .
  the instant an aku hit a hook , he was jerk into the cano and flip off . at onc , the line and hook were back in the water and the free hand of the fisherman stir the surfac again .
  second to the aku fisheri in the island modern commerci fish catch is the long-lin or flag-lin fisheri . flag-lin fishermen cruis offshor , put out line that are from five to eight mile long .
  flag-lin fishermen cruis offshor , put out line that are from five to eight mile long . these long line are set at interv with bait hook mark by float and buoy .
  anoth , the most famous of the charter fleet , is at kailua-kona , near the famous marlin ground off the kona coast . the skipper and crew pilot the boat , provid the gear , and bait the line .
  the first step , after catch one , is to quick turn the octopus insid out so that his sharp beaklik mouth has no chanc to bite . most diver in island water carri a long line on which to string their catch .
  most diver in island water carri a long line on which to string their catch . the end of this line is tie to an empti plastic bleach bottl , which serv as a buoy to keep the line float so the diver can tow his catch a safe distanc behind .
  ani hungri shark follow will come after the fish , not the diver . the length of the line protect a diver by give him time to see an approach shark and swim away .
  some famili rig old automobil batteri to an underwat light . the fish , attract by the light , bite the piec of raw shrimp bait on the hook dangl from the line of the fish pole .
  nevertheless , she had no way of ask him whi he wasn't wear them . line had been stretch between the limb of the four great pasania tree by the kitchen , and wash now took up everi inch of the linen cord that web the tree togeth . maggi , tie beneath the line , kept run back and forth under the white shape sportiv flap over her head and everi onc in a while let out a prolong howl . when the wash was hung , etsuko walk around between the line .
  the applic of pressur in matter of this kind requir a certain delicaci of touch and a measur of patienc . it is like an angler who has onli a light line to land a larg fish .
  it is like an angler who has onli a light line to land a larg fish . anyth like a sharp tug will snap the line , contact will be lost and the fish will get away .
  he cannot contain his excit . he grab a shark iron , a keen-edg harpoon with line and float attach , and second later hurl it deep into the back of a small femal that slide beneath him .
  the whale is no less astound than the boy . the line speed from the bucket like a live thing .
  three larg whale have return to the scene of action and are circl the victim she is a yearl half-sist of the littl calf . the line part , though whether from a bite or from the sheer impact of a pass bodi is not at the moment clear . tremain quick fasten a new line to the bight of the old one and the captain succeed in plant a second iron near the whale left flank .
  meanwhil , the fairi move in under full power and two sailor carri rifl up to the peak . they blaze away at the run whale for an hour and are about to quit from exhaust when they see the line go slack .
  the lifeless bodi roll in a pink wash . they haul her part out of the sea with the ship tackl and a line loop round her fluke .
  sheer chanc has led him east . he pass by the trail line of fishermen from neah bay and sekiu and pysht .
  he wave his arm mad and point to the left . men in yellow slicker run on the afterdeck , carri line and tackl .
  the ship back off with a clang of bell . a nylon line stretch taut to the whale , drip along it length and trembl like a fiddl string .
  will he be first ? will the line foul his propel or break his rudder ?
  " by god , we'v done it ! " the tug move slowli astern to keep the nylon line taut .
  the boom lean peril over the side ; the deck slant ; a bucket bang against the rail . now a man jerk a slender trip-wir follow the line from deck to whale .
  there is much scratch of head : who know how to shoot a whale ? how big a line we need to hold him ?
  it was heard by ship broker in tokyo , and the stock of matsushita broke half a point . kasuo fujima open a roll of cloth in his kit and remov a length of cod line with tripl hook .
  they move there for an hour and wash clean and white . fujima-san pull in the line .
  but he was understood in spite of the impolit wave and two crewmen care hook a resplend chromium ladder to the gunwal . need no urg , denni let go his hold of the parachut line at the same instant that he stretch out his arm to grab the tubular sidepiec .
  hand over hand they pull in the silk . then as the chute billow over the small deck , denni lean overboard to gather in the last few feet of the line .
  far away upstream a new sound had begun a rumble-grumbl like a big jet in the sky . we were lucki that brain was a scout life guard and knew how to heav a line .
  if he hadn't it wouldn't have reach us , becaus it was a heavi coil with a long way to go . i snub the line around the wagon seat , and made it good and tight with sever half hitch .
  neill felt his anger rise . the man was play them , play them like fish on a line .
  it'd been a nasti , cold , raini day , and the rain was chang to sleet . the cap'n was staggerin ' around the slipperi deck , but i didn't see the lad who usual toss the line .
  that was enough distanc in this thick air to walk out of sight of each other , as we soon discov . these line , not chain but light , tough rope , too strong to be broken , were all one need to be sure he would not float off in space when he step or jump .
  for minut it was like a slapstick comedi . we'd jump ; we'd swing out to the end of our line as if we were fli .
  he was play his own game of hide-and-seek , enjoy the protect color of his space suit . dillo touch one of the button at the platform , and the spool for the fourth hitch reel in the line slowli .
  my thought don't fire at rocket speed . i stood there ; i count the line twice befor the first pang of panic went through me .
  foolish . doc must have taken percussi line .
  " doc ... call doc ... are you there on the fourth ? ... call doc ... " no answer . i touch the wind-up button , the spool turn , and the fourth line came reel in .
  " what happen to the chimp ? he not on his line . "
  dillo was shout . " who let the chimp off the line ? "
  " he follow the fourth one out of sight . the last i saw he was run the line through his hand .
  " i mean it could have happen ! just as he unfasten himself , he might have seen doc come along , with a hand on the line .
  it was like an open stone quarri , cushion with spong . we stop at the outer limit of our line .
  doc leap . doc , with not a ghost of a safeti line attach to him , dart past us like a human rocket .
  dillo shout . gari had alreadi jump in straight pursuit and jump , he swung his arm and threw a wave into the slack of his line .
  modern echo sounder are so sensit they can detect shipwreck and school of fish . the equip replac the older techniqu of throw a weight line into the sea .
  one miscalcul or fals move could have knock the h-bomb off the ledg into deeper water , possibl spill it dead content out and poison the mediterranean sea over a vast area for mani year . by mean of a special navy-develop underwat recoveri apparatus , lift line were success attach to the h-bomb , bring it undamag to the surfac .
  rang too far from an underwat habitat can be danger becaus the diver may not be abl to find his way back . to prevent ani such incid dure the sealab experi the aquanaut were attach to their dwell by guid line whenev they swam for ani distanc .
  in a make-believ rescu effort , the porpois would dive down to the habitat when a buzzer rang . an aquanaut would attach a line to one of the ring on tuffi har , then turn off the buzzer at the habitat .
  a second aquanaut , pretend to be lost , would then signal the porpois by turn on his own buzzer . after tuffi reach the " victim , " the aquanaut would remov the line from tuffi har and use it as his guid back to the habitat .
  then while i sat at the tabl and drank orang juic and pour milk over cornflak , she would talk to me about all the thing she'd alreadi done that day . " whi , i'v got a load of wash on the line and some iron done .
  and i wonder if it made it harder for rubi to grow up with a long neck and boni arm and freckl , after she'd dream about be rich and glamor . i went around to the back of the hous , and aunt lou was come in from the yard with her cloth basket full of cloth taken down from the line .
  the secesh rode off . job shook the line .
  he said he didn't know ; they had come there in a wagon . i pull in my line and went up the bank .
  when albert cluveau said that about ned my heart start beat so fast i thought i might fall . i held on tight to the fish pole till i was steadi , then i pull in my line and went back home .
  " get down now , " cluveau said . ned hand bam the line .
  " tall mulatto in the white cowboy hat said : " ' nough of this . langloi , fetch two plow line off that wagon . " sappho said he was run befor the tall mulatto mention the plow line , he just start run faster when he heard it .
  to cover his confus at have let the sound escap him , he becam veri busi with the bait and float and sinker . he even bait up helen line for her , and in a few moment their float were bob on the wave .
  " got one ! got one ! " he cri , reel in his line .
  in an hour sever dozen fish lay in the net on the bottom of the boat . " that it , i think , " the professor said , reel in his line .
  look down , jeremi saw the water turn pink below his neck . as the throb pain in his templ increas , he knew it was too far to shore and too far to reach for a handhold on one of the boat anchor line .
  " it all right , " he said . on parker street the build seem to be dwell , to judg from the line of wash near them .
  come here and give me a hand . " while the two detect were chat , the skipper on his own initi had bait a line and appar hook a massiv fish .
  the negro had the line and it was hard to tell who was pull what , when lepet saw boner march to the rear of the boat , yank out a pistol , and with perfect aim drill two shot through the fish head . " what the fuck'd you do that to the fish for ? " said the skipper , hold a sudden slack line .
  as she move grace about on the glaze and frozen lawn , i realiz that she was wear ice skate ! i watch as she swoop down upon her cloth basket , extract a piec of cloth , took sever happi turn about the yard , then glide back to her line to hang a garment .
  but he had other gift . he could set snare , lobster pot or a long line better than anyon in the local .
  " yes , ma'am . i intend to , " he said , almost insol , back toward the bed and uncoil the line . "
  she wait while her host remov a dismantl speaker assembl on his singl upholst chair and flick the cushion in a grand manner with his pocket handkerchief . she took the hand he offer to aid her cakewalk to the chair over the coil line .
  we could hear voic and shout order . at length , a signal was given and men start pull on the line which ran through the block at the peak of the tripod .
  he switch over from manual to remot oper , put betti now under control of hal . it was a standard safeti precaut ; though he was still secur to betti by an immens strong spring-load cord littl thicker than cotton , even the best safeti line had been known to fail .
  he would look a fool if he need his vehicl and was unabl to call it to his assist by pass instruct to hal . the door of the pod swung open , and he drift slowli out into the silenc of space , his safeti line unreel behind him .
  betti continu to acceler on her runaway cours . then , tow behind her at the end of the safeti line , appear a spacesuit .
  the euphoria that flow over him mask out all realiti and the scent was all there was . when the shelf had torn loos from the wall , a quarter-inch nylon line had slip off a three-inch common nail on the top of the plank , over which it had been loop . lash like a thin white snake , the line had whip out through a hole in the roof and across the downward slope , dislodg sever shingl and two irat herring gull on the way .
  later that night he scrape togeth as much debri as he could find in the cabin and tri to buri the untouch coon . doc painter had fasten a line to the water can and withdrew it the next morn , refil it and slip it back in again under the door .
  each day he crouch back in a corner as he heard the old man struggl up the slight slope from the beach . he crouch and he wait as the door inch up and the water bucket was withdrawn on the end of it line .
  on certain day the wave weren't big enough to make much differ , but at other time they were mountain , and he would arriv home soak to the skin and ach in everi muscl . but he love it , and he never got over the thrill of feel the sudden tug when a fish hit his line .
  the eldest boy had got over his seasick , and he and the middl one sat in numb silenc in the stern . when they reach the dock , bubba made the line fast and then help the woman out of the boat .
  if it all that import , i'll come . " they went to the shed where liscom kept his line and pulley , and then , space about twenti yard apart so as not to attract attent , they made their way to jule lenihan hous .
  now , if someon was to cut the arm of that hoist almost through , then the first time doc got a good heavi dredge-load outa the water the arm'd most like break , and the whole thing'd go straight to the bottom . might even take doc with it , if he got foul up in the line .
  " all right , you red lobster , avast there , " he bellow . " throw your captain a line and help haul me aboard .
  the yard famili fortun enough to have yard space are no doubt alreadi use it for soft ball , pitch practic , touch footbal , and the like . badminton is a great famili game , and a cloth line may be use for a net in a pinch .
  each child crayon a design on his or her , after he has print his name in big letter . the cardboard are stapl to a long , strong line , which then can be loop around the room , or between post or tree , or along a fenc .
  in cap and gown i slip almost unnot into the senior process , as it round the corner of the hedg , on it way to the church . i didn't hear much of what presid hutchin said , for my mind was divid between our last tablecloth , now dri i hope on the line , and keep susan volumin gown from disclos my bare leg .
  he watch mr. murray back the truck out of his garag and start for town , pass a gray car come in the other direct . mrs. murray had hung out her wash of mani color on the line a shirt , anoth shirt , overal , underp , pajama an indecipher signal in flag .
  they never went where they could not ride . think of the day of wait on the riverbank , i wish i had provid him with hook and a line .
  for tedious second noth happen . then there was a seri of sharp bang as some of the tow line part .
  again there was a shudder , then a nois like a small cannon be fire . a tow line thrash back across the deck , tear off a bollard and hurl it through the corner of the bridg .
  a bucket at his side was overflow with pollack . he haul the line in , bait it care with a piec of bacon , and lob it back into the sea with a splash .
  so the men made their own . men forg hook and filch nylon line from aerial kite and weather balloon .
  at the moment , he had a larg conger eel fight in a sack at his feet . he was hold the strong line delic in his big hand .
  " pull , " shout bori . igor grab the line and put a turn round his wrist .
  " help me play it , you fool . it'll break the line .
  " the two men haul on the fish . it drag yard of line into the water , but they gradual drew it back .
  the fishermen ran back with him to bori . mani hand grab the line from the pant cook .
  mani hand grab the line from the pant cook . his palm were slash and bleed where the line had burn deep furrow in them .
  the cossack was fish . as albert watch , he began pull in a long line he was trail behind the cutter .
  igor unhook the fish and drop it into the top of the nearest box . then he threw the line back into the sea .
  " this time i'm do it myself , " said ace . he climb over into the cutter and unti the line .
  the red bra they'd all seen , and sever other that the men hope to see again fill . at first the men tri to avoid be caught look at the line .
  victoria nail score his back . igor retreat from the cave , pay out the line as he went .
  he stood a few yard away , to one side of the entranc . then he jerk the line , sudden , and clasp his hand over his ear .
  even so , the sheer clutter in that basement took a bit of sort out , especi in that dim light . one wall had a floor-to-ceil spread of wall-bar on gymnasium line .
  the gunboat took it prize in tow , as the flagship signal retir for the small boat . the brig and schooner advanc to get line aboard their charg while the frigat , support with heavi fire , move in toward the rock through water that foam with a hail of enemi projectil .
  " i'll have the boat over to tow , if you pleas , " the captain order . boat drop into the water , snake out line , and men bent to the oar .
  " hull consid the suggest a moment . " all right , mr. morri , have everyth over five inch made up into a line , and send the launch and cutter ahead with a kedg anchor .
  " the kedg went down near a mile from the ship . men fell to on the capstan , wind in the line .
  the saratoga came next , follow by the ticonderoga and the prebl . mobil had been provid for by attach spring line to the anchor cabl , one on each side the ship could be move in posit by haul in on one line , while pay out on the other .
  the moment had come when the kedg must do their work , must wind the ship around , so that the port tier of gun could be brought to bear upon the enemi . he shout command that sent an anchor plung from the stern , while men cut the forward cabl and other bent to the capstan , winch in the line to the starboard kedg .
  pass it forward , get it under the bow and astern . " men struggl to posit the heavi line ; onc more the capstan clank it turn .
  the saratoga move again , complet her swing , inch by inch , with port gun fire as they bore . when it was observ aboard the confianc that the american ship was swing , a lieuten had spring line bent to his anchor cabl in order to wind ship in similar fashion .
  at the veri moment when the man was appar doom to strike the hard edg of the apron and be drag along it abras surfac , the parachut tilt again , trade a share of downward motion for later slip , and drift seren over the grass . he struck and clutch at the line while teeter , stumbl and roll as the billow canopi began to drag him heedless along the ground .
  sig was first on the scene . when he snatch at the shroud line , set his heel and pull , danni did the same .
  he remov the tape and the glass , set them care on the roof next to the mold . at the same time , salli open a small metal box she had been carri and took out a long line with sever fishhook tie to one end .
  from a plastic bag in the box she chose a few slice of fish which had been taken from their remain stock . she bait the hook and turn the line over to freddi . spread full-length on the edg of the skylight , freddi lower the line into a likely-look tank direct underneath the open pane .
  freddi reach into the box and brought out a small fish rod in three section . he fit two of them togeth , strung the line along it length , and then , drop the whole apparatus through the open pane , extend it over the next tank and lower the hook .
  georg could see , dim against the water , the shadow of sever fish warili circl their unexpect midnight snack . in a short while there was a tug on the line .
  the museum rais the best catfish for eat in the world . " freddi quick brought up six or seven catfish , and then salli took over the line .
  " the tank lynn was refer to was in the deepest of the shadow , but they could all make out sever shape move to and fro in the turgid water . " one more it is , " agre salli , and she turn the line over to lynn .
  lynn took her place on the ledg and drop her hand through the open . with the rod extend over the tank , she lower the line into the middl of the circl shape .
  she fought like a profession , hold the rod insid the skylight , while georg ad his weight to her pull . freddi reach through the open and grasp the line .
  the one lynn had hook measur about two feet in length ; georg saw that they could never get it up even if they had want to . " hold the rod , " freddi repeat grim ; he began saw on the line with his penknif ; the shark was twist at the end , swing back and forth like a pendulum .
  " hold the rod , " freddi repeat grim ; he began saw on the line with his penknif ; the shark was twist at the end , swing back and forth like a pendulum . as freddi slash through the line , lynn and georg toppl over backward , and the shark , as amaz as ani of them , drop with a tower splash into the piranha tank .
  salli , freddi , lynn , and georg scrambl back across the branch , down to the earth , and out of the museum ground as fast as they could . " i hope the line disappear in the fight , " freddi said as he replac the ladder in the littl equip shed from which he had borrow it .
  there one thing she said i can rememb word for word : " chichella , don't worri about peopl know how rich or how poor you are . they can alway tell from the copper hang in your kitchen or the sheet on your line .
  " there is smoke come from the millhous , " the old man said . " there are also cloth hang on a line . "
  howev , let it be understood that no one should dive without some type of person float , such as an inflat vest , in addit to a surfac float . a good automobil inner tube with attach line make a veri effect and practic surfac float for rest .
  as he came alongsid , a hatchway open in the side of the ship abov him . a line was play down to the rowboat .
  trigano grasp it and tie it secur around his bundl . then he tug twice on the line .
  who ever would have guess , when they made fast to the shore , that in ten minut the dive suit would be call for in such a frantic hurri ? the air pump whisper steadili in his ear as he trail pipe and line behind him .
  " well , no , sam , " alic said kind , " it is realli time for us to go anyway . perhap next time we come , you will put a fenc round the wash line .
  it reach far out into the bay of kiel . at that long jetti , mani a british warship had fasten her line for a friend visit dure the intern famous " kieler week " of the kaiser era .
  our rusti boat berth near the stern of the tender lech . the line were not yet fulli secur when kern , the exec , cross to the liner to arrang for the crew lodg and for eckstein last journey to his hometown .
  earli on the third day after our encount with the british cruiser , we found the lone belchen at the design place . approach slowli , we identifi ourselv , exchang courtesi through the megaphon , and caught the line to which the oil hose was fasten .
  at 1300 we were met by a minesweep , sent to a predesign point to guid us through the mine-infest water to lorient . some of our seamen prepar white pennant and hoist them on a line fasten to the protrud periscop head .
  how satisfi it was to be expect , how good it was to have surviv ! a militari band launch into a resound march as u-557 came alongsid the quay and fasten her line .
  the month of august in ' 41 was but a few day old when u-557 sail for her second patrol . at 1400 we remov the line from the pillar .
  both full stop . fasten all line .
  thus taken between the two vessel , u-415 began her slow march into port . 0445 : maneuv with difficulti on our one lame diesel , i aim my ship toward the illumin squar in the bunker , where i saw a few black figur wait on the pier . the bow bounc off the concret head wall , but the line , alreadi fasten at the pillar on land , held the boat steadi .
  the crew stroll aboard in small group , as inconspicu as possibl , so as not to suggest to the french dockhand of the night shift that we might be sail . at midnight we remov the line from the pillar .
  time : 2120 , august 22 , 1944 . onli a few seamen were on deck to handl the line .
  " never mind , you get out of here befor it too late . " a few command , and the line were remov from the pillar , the gangway push back to the pier .
  we look more like undernourish and fatigu jungl fighter . our line were thrown ashor .
  here the overhaul of my boat could be guarante , wherea a stay in kiel would onli jeopard her exist . one hour after we had fasten our line we remov them again .
  we had noth to show for our long and agon voyag noth at all except our live . gray cloud hung low in the sky when u-953 , onc again old and rust bitten , fasten her line at the quay .
  " angermann was recit still more horror when anoth small new boat plow up to the pier . a man threw a line .
  sinc veri few incom midshipmen know anyth about seamanship and navig , cours in that depart begin with the simplest thing . men who will one day command atomic-pow vessel first learn to knot and splice line and to row a boat .
  as befor , we drift down upon it . tackl were made fast and line flung to the men , who scrambl aboard like monkey .
  then he was carri aft and flung into the sea . forti fifti sixti feet of line ran out , when wolf larsen cri " belay ! "
  but at the moment of contact thoma mugridg cri out . then he came in like a fresh-caught fish on a line , clear the rail generous and strike the deck in a heap , on hand and knee , and roll over .
  " take a turn , " he said quiet to the man . the boat puller obey , take a turn around the littl forward thwart and pay the line as it jerk taut .
  furl the sail and lash it secur about the mast , boom , sprit , and two pair of spare oar , i threw it overboard . a line connect it with the bow , and as it float low in the water , practic unexpos to the wind , it drift less rapid than the boat .
  but i complain no more and set about make a tent of the sail for maud . i had look upon it as a simpl task , what of the oar , mast , boom , and sprit , to say noth of plenti of line .
  to prevent the butt of the mast from slip on the deck , i nail down thick cleat . everyth in readi , i made a line fast to the apex of the shear and carri it direct to the windlass .
  the mast , boom , and gaff i had clear were gone . he had found the line which held them and cast them adrift .
  my wrist and arm ach intoler , and though i had eaten heartili of a twelv o'clock lunch , i had work so hard that i was faint from hunger . i pull in the oar and bent forward to the line which held the tow .
  i found a light kedg anchor in the fore hold , where such thing were kept , and with a deal of exert got it on deck and into the boat . with a long run line coil down in the stern , i row well out into our littl cove and drop the anchor into the water .
  there was no wind , the tide was high , and the schooner float . cast off the shore line , i kedg her out by main strength , the windlass be broken , till she rode near up and down to the small anchor too small to hold her in ani breez .
  so it up to you to go an ' get it . " he cut a short pole at the water edg and drew from one of his pocket a bit of line and a draggl fli that had onc been a royal coachman . "
  of cours , you can't keep an anim like that in a tini pen all the time . he need exercis , so we rig up a line between two tree about 40 feet apart in the side yard .
  i'd seen it work onc on a larg hunt dog . with assort children in attend , i led the donkey to the line . then chris , who was ten , snap the catch onto the exercis line .
  we went in and watch him through the window . he walk the length of the line twice .
  that was his contempl look . then , deliber and with amaz delicaci , he close his front teeth over the spring of the latch on the exercis line .
  he was investig a routin complaint , he said , but we were in the clear as far as he was concern ; jack was a fine healthi donkey . he ask about exercis , and we show him the exercis line .
  he quaver , " friend , isn't he ? " after that , everi morn , if he was out on the exercis line , jack would bugl a salut to mr. macintosh as he pass .
  " cleat up , " the captain order . a deckman fasten the tow line to a cleat in the middl of the boat .
  at the height of the american jump craze the chief of the soviet air forc , general jacob alksni , sent an offic name sergei mienov to the unit state as an observ . at roosevelt field , long island , the russian visitor saw a fifteen-year-old girl jump from a height of 2,000 feet and get snarl in her line .
  if you see blue sky through more than one panel , pull your reserv ... . start prepar your land immedi . watch for smoke or flag to see how the wind is blow on the ground ... . put your arm up on the shroud line and grab a hand .
  britain paratroop had chute that open more gentl than the american type . a small pilot chute came out first , then the support line , and final the big canopi .
  screen by the burza against possibl attack , the crew of the campbel swift began to follow command hirshfield order . four men strip off their cloth , tie line about their waist and slip into the freez water . each held in his mouth a cork tie to a light line . these light line were attach to heavier one that were connect with a collis mat .
  the men were to swim down to the hole in the hull and push the cork through it so they would bob to the surfac insid the ship . there , other men would grasp the line attach to the cork .
  soon a detach of sailor gather at the base of the lighthous to work out a way to get thompson down . homemad kite with line attach were flown up in the air .
  on the deck of the winslow , ensign worth bagley stood readi to catch it . befor the line could be cast , a shell struck the winslow , instant kill bagley and three torpedo men . despit the enemi fire , which now seem to be entir concentr on the two struggl ship , the line was thrown .
  the other were to follow onc the lifeboat was in the water . but one of the wellington men , afraid that the heavi sea would smash the small boat against the side of the ship , cut the line .
  after more than three hour in the water , brown was pick up . as he reach for the line thrown from the warrington he was feebli shout , " i had eighteen men .
  burk calcul were slight off . he had to start the engin again to get his plane close enough to throw a line to the raft .
  with a wild scream he dive into the shark-fil water . but his partner had enough strength to drag him back and then to grab burk line .
  we spend the whole day on the water . pascal fish with a line that has a number of hook on it .
  the battl of the coral sea had been fought ten long , long day ago . kortland could look down upon the near lifeless thing swing up on the line .
  and here they were , near the breakwat , and the civilian pilot was come on board to lay them alongsid the finger pier , bright in the blaze light which reveal all the feverish activ of the yard . the line were hard secur befor a dozen men were readi to come on board naval offic and civilian in approxim equal number .
  " let have it ! " said the warrant bosun to the shadowi men at his side ; and he did not say " it " ; he substitut a dirti noun for the pronoun , as unnecessarili as ever . he took the heav line in his hand , deft seiz half a dozen coil in his right hand while his left loos held the remaind , and whirl the weight with the full strength of his arm . the weight soar off into the dark , and the line ran smooth out from his left hand . had it been daylight , the warrant bosun would have fire a line out of a gun , but in dark that would mean a reveal flash .
  human muscl and skill had to take the place of a gun , and if the line were bad thrown , if it fell short and had to be recoil and re-thrown , five minut would be wast , and , with mani ship to fuel , a similar mistak at each would make a total of mani minut lost , and in so mani minut ... the warrant bosun did not know that nelson had onc said that at sea five minut can make the differ between victori and defeat , but he felt that truth in his bone after twenti year in the navi . the weight shot off into the dark , trail the line behind it , and the warrant bosun utter a grunt of moros satisfact at feel the line catch and hold .
  someon on the battleship forecastl had seiz it . megaphon shout order over the wind , and the heav line ran steadili out to the battleship .
  there was a two-inch messeng line attach to the heav line the warrant bosun was respons for the vital knot which join them and , by the time the two-inch line was be haul into the battleship , the warrant bosun was readi to follow it with a 3-1/2-inch line , and that was follow by a five-inch line , and that was strong enough to have entrust to it the immens manila towlin on which the rest of the oper depend . from other part of the ship , other heav line had been thrown , other messeng pass , now that the two ship were ride togeth more or less comfort har togeth with the heavi manila .
  it was up to him to eas the strain or take it up , keep the ship at a constant distanc apart without allow the towlin to break under the continu jerk to which the wave subject it . if that line should part , everyth els , includ the precious hose which the boom were begin to swing out over the gap , would be torn asund .
  he was wet and hungri and weari but the fleet oiler was move up alongsid the carrier , and the warrant bosun had to leav off swear . those messeng line had to be pass , and he could save five minut if he made quit sure that they went over at the first attempt .
  it might even be express more forcibl still : the admir at the battleship bridg , the admir with the broad gold on his sleev , irasc signal " expedit , " was at that particular moment a less import person than the warrant bosun , wet through , worn out , and yet still swing out the boom and hose with all the accur judgement of twenti year of experi . the work had begun befor daylight ; and night was about to fall when the last line was cast off and fake down .
  when she was not help her mother make bread , or slide pot of bubbl brown bean in or out of the big oven at the side , or bast great joint of meat , she was on her knee scrub the wooden floor , their plank worn smooth by the steadi tattoo of mani feet and by sand and scour . or she was wash the big tub of cloth that accumul so quick , hang them out to dri on a line that reach all the way across the clear behind the hous .
  as they walk through the warm , clear air , the colonel breath it in deepli , exhal with a sigh . " one a day like this , a bodi should be allow to do his work and later perhap take a pole and line and think of naught but fat trout , " he said regret .
  the king had no success and was just about to abandon his effort when nell with a spright laugh urg him : " but see , sire , you have got a bite at last . " sure enough , when the king pull in his rod , he found half a dozen fri smelt at the end of the line , tie to his hook with a silken thread .
  a trout was rise just upstream . i paid out some line wish it would alway stay thus soft and dri and , measur the distanc with a fals cast or two , laid down a spent gnat exact a foot abov his last swirl .
  one bush , with it brown stem lave in the middl current , shook with a perpetu silent laughter , as if to mock at ani fli that god or men might cast one inch beyond it outermost leaf . for the durat of a cigarett i sit on a rock midstream and watch my trout rise under his guardian bush , while my rod and line hang dri on the alder of the sunni bank .
  readi now ! coil up the dri line and stand midstream , rod in instant readi .
  it come a littl premonitori shiver in that aspen on the hill let me get out half a cast , and swish it gentl back and forth , readi for the main puff to hit the pool . no more than half a line , mind you !
  in a few minut he , too , is kick in the creel . i sit in happi medit on my rock , ponder , while my line dri again , upon the way of trout and men .
  with cat-lik care not to roil his majesti bath , i step in , and stand stock-stil for five minut to let thing calm down . the while , i strip out , oil , dri , and coil upon my left hand thirti feet of line .
  i blow upon my fli to give it one last fluff , lay it on the stream at my feet , and quick pay out coil after coil . then , just as the line straighten out and the fli is suck into the jungl , i walk quick downstream , strain my eye into the dark vault to follow it fortun .
  courag becaus although the catch was better the weather was a greater risk the farther you sail from overfish home water . foolhardi becaus one day if you persist you would lose all your gear pot , net , and line in the sudden storm that brought in the terribl ground sea from the illimit westward ocean .
  korean and indian fight kite are so sensit to the touch of the handler that they will alight within an inch or two of where he direct them to go . the celebr indian kite-fly surendra bahadur could fli a kite six inch off the ground ; also , he could tell a kite height by listen to the wind on the line .
  kite battl are fought daili from roof and field in asia . the combat glaze their kite line with a mixtur of past and ground glass , then take their posit with high maneuver kite .
  the combat glaze their kite line with a mixtur of past and ground glass , then take their posit with high maneuver kite . line cross , overlap .
  did it fli ? superbl with 200 rapt kite-fli handl the line .
  keep the wind at your back . tri for a smooth , easi launch , a steadi climb , a steep angl of line without undu sag , an even flight , and a firm return to your hand .
  i add my own non-expert suggest : keep your eye on the kite . the line may break ( mine has ) .
  he went over to stand by rick . we toss the line over the side , set the fish boat adrift .
  i got the lift capac figur for helium and hydrogen . it turn out that if our friend use a specif type of chute , which is common with skydiv , you could inflat a balloon within the shroud line and the canopi .
  he made him the garden of the kingdom , to drive away the sparrow from the king head . 48 . old hiram goat was feel fine , ate three red shirt right off the line .
  and just west of stratford i left potiphar in charg of himself , becaus i knew a stop would wake up parson , and i got my cloth and gear out of the van , and wrote on my slate , " gone home , " and look at parson asleep and felt sad . i went around and stop potiphar and weight his line with a rock , and gave his fine big round rump a pat .
  the new lobster boat charg into hawkey inlet and bump into his wharf . trapper and lucinda jump out , threw a line to billi pierc , and ran up the lawn .
  mayb next year they could rope the hay off the rack . jess stood up and took the line from georg .
  " hah ! " jess shout , lean back , his arm flex against the rhythmic pull of the line as the hors march close besid the huge log of the barn .
  the team stop abrupt . he made a half-hitch with the line at the top of the hayrack middl upright , and turn to take his fork .
  " whoa ! " georg cri , and pull on the line so hard that he sat down almost on top of his father head .
  we found the hous realli has a board floor under all that dirt . we wash all the bed , and it hang on the line right now .
  " but the onli hope for the women and children was the launch . " a boat carri a line was hurl into the cove at the cost of one broken arm .
  all of the use cloth that arriv in kabul from the state look like new , if a littl out of style . it is ship after be dry-clean and press and then , when it get to the bazaar , is hung on hanger on cloth line stretch over the street from store front to store front .
  there is noth like the use cloth bazaar in kabul on a windi novemb day . etch against the bleak , drab sky are sweater , suit , and long underwear that danc merrili in the breez on myriad line high abov your head .
  the figur of a man loom sudden abov him and ason rais his sword until he saw the other was unarm , his face and head cake with dri blood . ason slash at the line .
  let me take one place and row with you . " the line fell free and the galley began to move out .
  a thin and broad-should young man name pylor , from the island of kea , said that he had much dive experi after the spong that grew offshor there , and he volunt to look under the galley . a line was tie under his arm and he dive and came up quit soon after .
  there was more shout and laughter and then the galley shudder as the ship bump against them . feet thud on the cabin roof , while anoth sidonioi jump down to the foredeck with a line , bend to tie it secur .
  everi bit of leather avail had been gather and braid into rope to tie about the stone . these were the anchor line for two long , thick leather cabl that stretch out ahead , well rub with fat to keep them soft and suppl .
  the rope that had been use to lift the leg were now lash secur to the log behind the stone , and the lift was readi to begin . one hundr and fifti men pick up each line . they would pull the top of the shear-leg away from the stone , and the line tie to the short crossbar would pull the stone to a vertic posit . if everyth went correct inteb order the slack be taken up on the line , then walk about examin everi detail befor turn to ason .
  saturday morn she ran the sweeper and in the afternoon she bought groceri . monday after work she wash the navi blue and white orlon dress she wore sunday to the movi and hung it on the rope line abov the bathtub .
  various color twine , cord and rope , avail sinc the popular of macram , are also usabl . you may , howev , choos freeli from butcher twine , mason line , nylon and plastic twine .
  onc or twice i thought the first drop had begun to fall . i rush downstair to bring the wash in from the line .
  the mule made no sound but plung wild in the har . ostler lean all his weight back on the line . the wound mule plung again and again as the other mule respond to the line .
  ain't nobodi miss no dinner yet on account of me that i know of . " he drove on north grumbl , but flail the line against the rump of the team .
  the singletre on the off side drag and bounc against the front wheel . the line in the professor hand droop down onto the tongu and neck yoke .
  the professor imagin that he was far abov them , so that he could see men and their unknown end as men can see longhorn and the end they cannot see . he saw the remuda and the cowboy ; then he saw a wagon jolt along and himself hold droop line , sit look at the back end of four mule .
  larri ignor the cri and came swoop in . the fisherman nylon line , taut and glisten with drop of seawat , sudden went slack as larri board rode over it .
  " most of us work dure the week and saturday , and sunday are the onli chanc we got to go surf , " larri said . " ah , what the hell , rocki , " anoth fisherman said , reel in his line .
 "this money has never been carri out of the compani in cash, but it must have been transform at one point into cash," he said."so from frankfurt there is possibl a line of bank account that will shed more light on this." 
 "i will be out of work shortly; that whi i want to leave," say ruben arabean, a 30-year-old engineer, marri with two children.a he wait in line for his immigr visa at the australian embassy, he explains: "i want to live in a countri where thing are plan out, where the budget is approv at the begin of the year, not at the end." 
 my eye were wide open in search of the unknown.a i move my platoon of 20-odd teen-ag through the jungle, i chose to walk third in the line of march. 
 in quito, where build rock and crack but didn't collapse, automobil use is restrict and soldier guard the gas stations.at quito air forc base, earthquak victim wait in line for hour to hitch ride on cargo plane to the earthquak zone. 
 the columnist goe on: "if a person is kind, or generous, it an event."h mail, she says, touch on sore spot rang from poor manner in supermarket line to talk dure movies. 
 so did peopl magazine, ap and a dozen photographers.outside, a line of custom wait to get in. 
 the head of an intern bank in singapor confirm that he send his driver onto the street everi weekday at 5 a.m. with instruct not to return without a copy.bi get out so early, the driver can be first in line when the newsstand open. 
 edward, just six month old, most sleep and eat banana mush.hi mother most sit in line and watch kung fu and wildlif film on the four closed-circuit televis screen in the dingi recept area.about 300 other black peopl who have come to regist for one thing or anoth are also wait and watching, and more are stand in an even longer line outside. 
 for their part, some indigen valley resid complain that their nativ soil has alreadi becom a verit coloni of the midwest.a latino businessman saw someth symbol about recent spend 20 minut in a cafeteria line behind a group of winter texans, onli to find that the mexican entre was sold out by the time he was served. 
 mr. hodel, a former energi secretary, has been the most outspoken cabinet member on the threat to the u.s. from depend on oil imports.h has been warn that unless the u.s. chang it ways, it will face gasolin line within two to five years. 
 am i right or am i wrong?"h is everi bit as high on his scheme to unifi this bifurc citi with a line of gondola suspend 320 feet abov the mississippi river. 
 for most of nine hour we prowl the shorelin and place in the lake where weed or fallen tree punctur the water surface.w cruis a line of rundown boat sheds, and cook slip a neat cast into each. 
 the japanese, sociologist note, tend to follow the crowd.they measur the qualiti of ice cream, for example, by the length of the line in front of the shop. 
 c-ld-r l-v-s v-nna read a sign in caldor book department.th 1,000 or so peopl fight for a place in line have no troubl fill in the blanks. 
 "nope," say ms. white firmly.sh has onli 90 minut to sign book for the privileg 250 who queu up befor caldor close off the line. 
 ms. white kiss a littl girl who bring her a rose."g me a kiss," yell some high school boy in the middl of the long and wind line. 
 "i get her first," say his friend and classmat kevin marski.meanwhile, a woman offer dan kelli a $1 bribe to cut into the bulg line and get ms. white to autograph a book. 
 mr. kent believ the incident, which last two or three minutes, may have been connect to some sort of high-energi weapon experiment.two year ago, mr. nonella buckaroo found four dead cattl lie in a straight line one mile long, their chest and belli pock by some sort of lesions. 
 some food shortag were reported.tour slump and line for visa and passport form as peopl sought to leav the south pacif nation. 
 so there a new emphasi on tri to make such transact just a bit more pleasant.in new york and some other cities, for example, the servic is experi with comput that can tell custom how long they'll wait in line befor be helped. 
 but a consumer-pric index wouldn't captur the full measur of inflation.expert note that rampant repress inflat show up in long line at stores, poor qualiti of goods, new product that contain no improv over cheaper earlier model and shrink select on store shelves. 
 back in december, harrison j. goldin was at the front of a long line of institut investor itch to take a verbal swipe at general motor corp. and it chairman, roger smith. 
 then amid profound silenc he assur his audience, sedat and terrified, that while their person safeti was most dear to him he felt bound to confid that the plane comput system was down, he had no idea how much fuel was left in the plane, and he was plan an unschedul land in atlanta forthwith.such episod are now the convers loos chang of airport bar and taxi lines. 
 he the leader-elect of west germani biggest party, the social democrats, and he stand befor a downtown hall full of worker in a citi that long been a spd stronghold.down the street, monument to the german welfar state -- the health office, the employ offic and the union -- stand in a line. 
 it actual a wast of time to debat the merit of each case, becaus under our current tort system, it realli doesn't matter who was wrong or respons for the injury.in this society, if someon get hurt, somebody, anybodi must pay -- and a line of hungri trial lawyer will be wait outsid the hospit room to get a share of the action. 
 but while alysheba win made him big stuff with the turf cognoscenti, it was, as usual, onli a rumor to a larg part of the throng of 130,000 that annual turn the old twin-spir track into the nation biggest picnic grounds.behind me in the serpentin taxi line outsid the track after the race was a sunburn young coupl lug a huge cooler. 
 but not near as mani immigr show up the first day as had been expected.th wait-and-se attitud among wari illeg immigr was typifi by rudolfo aspara contreras, a nativ of michoacan, mexico, who spent the morn observ a line of applic outsid a houston process center. 
 the distribut of applications, and the process of the few turn in yesterday, appear to go smooth in most locations.th in had brace for a crush of applicants; in houston, for instance, when long line began form a day early, offici pass out applic to about 1,000 befor the law actual took effect. 
 he frequent the flea markets.h line up daili outsid state part shops, finger a list of scarc bit and pieces. 
 should the fda new rule on experiment drug go into effect without be compromised, they will be a watersh event in american medic science.th u.s., which possess the intellectu and financi resourc to produc some of the world most use medic interventions, has for year labor under a system that made american stand at the end of the line for these treatments. 
 dure his control tenure, which end in 1983, he did sever refresh stint behind restaur counters."som peopl on the cook line would tell me that my name sound familiar; then they would realiz it on their paychecks," he says. 
 the 76-year-old physician latest study, publish in the octob 1986 issu of the american heart journal, found that heart-attack victim cut their risk for a second attack in half by complet train he has devised.th two-year program at the meyer friedman institut in san francisco includ patience-build drill such as drive in the slow lane of traffic or stand in long line at banks. 
 but whi are mr. hodel and secretari of energi john herrington tri to resurrect anoth "energi crisis"?mr. hodel has warn of line at the gas pump in "two to five years." 
 the hospit director is taken away by the secret police.th novel end with a vivid taxi ride to the american embassi in tehran, surround by angri crowd who will overrun it and take hostag in just a few months, and with a final burst of imperialist frenzi on line at the caviar shop in the tehran airport minut befor the jet take off for geneva, los angel and new york. 
 the platform is crowd with soldier buy ticket to chimoio, the next stop on the corridor.a boy with a basketball, which could use some air, also wait in line. 
 he arous an angri backlash in canada when he suggest that canada is demand strong u.s. acid-rain control to improv it own energi export to the u.s.hi wide-rang comment on energi polici have irrit energi secretari john herrington, who has public disagre with mr. hodel predict of gasolin shortag and gas-stat line in two to five years. 
 "thing may never turn back like they were," say jame t. trado, the senior vice presid and general manag of mazda motor of america eastern u.s. operations."w went sever year without enough vehicl -- custom were wait in line. 
 it just declasse," said joel silverman, a money manag attend the conference."i'd rather go out and pay retail for the stuff than wait in line for a free album." 
 he continu at this often thankless job, he says, becaus of the "injustic out there."h recal hand out food last christma to a long line of laid-off workers: "it made me want to hold on to the job i have." 
 the joke russian tell among themselv are more pointed.marshal goldman, co-director of harvard russian research center, heard this one: two russian are stand in a long line to buy vodka, grumbl about gorbachev restrict on liquor-stor hours. 
 lament over deterior standard of public courtesi are near as old as civilization, so perhap those who feel besieg by rampant rude are simpli respond to new form of rude made possibl by social and technolog changes.th advent of large, self-servic supermarket and depart store has made it possibl for the inconsider to wheel full shop cart into express checkout lines. 
 ibm has said it has receiv ten of thousand of order for 9370s, and analyst general put the number at 40,000 to 45,000.the analyst said, though, that mani custom place those order just to get in line for an earli deliveri and could still withdraw the order without penalti if the 9370 doesn't seem to meet expectations. 
 at delta kogyo co. plant in hiroshima, for example, two women oper three machin that turn out seat-reclin devic for mazda.until october, the work took three peopl -- one for each machin -- but the seat maker found that by arrang the machin in a circl instead of a straight line, two worker were enough. 
 bowler earl anthoni was suppos to begin a practic session for the true valu open at 10:30 a.m. at landmark lane here on tuesday, but the cluster of autograph seeker was so deep around him that he couldn't shake free until about 10:45.as he bowled, new line formed, and for the next hour he halt his exert everi 10 minut or so to accommod them. 
 advoc of systemat invest say it imposs to time the market and that most individu investor get kill trying."it like tri to pick the fastest line at the bank," say bryan mattes, assist vice presid of the vanguard group of mutual fund in valley forge, pa. 
 and mani express the hope for continu clear, mild weather.sunshin eas the pain of stand in long line to enter some crowd store along new york fifth avenue. 
 on saturday, from morn until dusk, there were more than 100 peopl line up to enter f.a.o. schwarz new toy store at 58th street and fifth.said one man who had been in line 20 minutes, "put it this way: i wouldn't be here in a blizzard." 
 but the compani recogn that improv servic requir chang that can't be measur in numbers."go for 87 is turn glare into gleams," eastern employe newslett says, show photo of glower custom in long line at ticket counters. 
 the rule involv the area that, although technical, is import in determin where lawsuit may be brought, and where compani and other defend may be forc to defend themselves.in a long line of decisions, the suprem court has said there must be "minimum contacts" between a compani and a state befor the compani can be su in that state. 
 that trend intensifi when, start in 1981, nissan motor co. built it smyrna, tenn., plant, larg without union workers.th toyota plant was seen by the union as "the second domino in what we fear would be a long line of loss on major construct projects," mr. hammond says. 
 she is from a polit family: her mother, a member of the school board in manchest for 13 years, work in the presidenti campaign of wilbur mill and lyndon johnson here, and miss reardon rememb lick envelop for a democrat gubernatori candid at age four."from the grubby, what-do-i-get-out-of-it? view of politics, there a long line of peopl who are ahead of me in the hart campaign," say miss reardon, who is interest in arms-control issues, troubl by the deficit and oppos to oper of the nuclear power plant at seabrook. 
 the men stretch their feet and pay attent to correct arm positions.th women hold their shoulder at a grace angle, maintain a clean, unbroken line and use their eye as an adjunct to express of movement. 
 the compani blame expansion-rel cost and a more competit u.k. govern bond market.just befor that, a canadian financi and health concern, crownx inc., bought a 14.9% stake in mercantil house, join a line of foreign swoop in on british financi houses. 
 as the afternoon wore on, an air of crisi hung about the firm.televis cameramen, chase out of the lobbi of the firm headquart by secur guards, hover around the long line of limousin park outsid goldman headquarters. 
 but even the improv american prospect didn't turn this event into a gate attraction.on saturday, when the sun shone bright and temperatur were in the 50s, the line of car tri to get into a car wash across the highway from the 400-meter oval at the wisconsin state fairground was longer than that seek admiss to the races. 
 the most fundament element of a program to deal with the present disequilibrium in the world economi is to rememb that the price system works, and attempt to fix price alway produc mischief.in the 1970s, the u.s. saw gasolin price as the problem and therebi impos on itself long line at fill stations. 
 while cathol and jewish agenc have had enough bed to accommod children of those religions, protest agenc have not.that has meant that non-cathol and non-jewish children have had to get at the end of the line for accept into agencies, sole becaus of their religion. 
 mr. smyth and the three hunter continu their ridge-top hunt and within minut were in the midst of more flush prairi chickens.th hunter at the left of the line, the one who had yet to bag a bird, was quick to score. 
 organizers, who expect mayb 2,000 or 3,000 visitors, were stun by what happened.near 30,000 peopl show up, some wait in line for three hours. 
 "you'll have to look in your miracl section for an answer."miracl or not, st. nichola icon is attract such throng that parishion must put in long hour organ the line of tourists. 
 some believ say the madonna is spill tear of joy.but after wait in line for an hour to see the icon the other day, alic stavrid take a dimmer view: "it mean societi had better shape up." 
 the committe civilian anti-crim squad have stop their night patrols.resid say they miss the committe weekend soup lines, which enrich their diet of rice, bean and bananas. 
 to salomon brothers, which in octob claim anoth in a long line of first stake out by wall street firm last year. 
 from georg washington time on up to 1932, you were abl on new year day to shake hand with the presid of the unit states.you just got in line, no question asked, and wait your turn. 
 john w. hunefeld," read a jan. 2, 1936, news item, ". . . walk through the snow to the white hous today to retain a hollow title.sinc 1926 hunefeld had claim the distinct of be first in line for the tradit new year day recept there. 
 curmudgeon are horrifi by warren burger plan for celebr the bicentenni of the constitution.h want 50 million copi of the holi document print on cereal box and sold in supermarket checkout lines. 
 that not to say that mr. wilson has abandon his characterist bag of stage tricks: he send vultures, gees and heron flap lazili through the air; he perch a giant sing owl on a tree limb; robert e. lee float weightless in space; and abraham lincoln, tall as a house, waft across the stage like some benign monster, then goe belli up.th intric lighting, by bever emmon and mr. wilson, make magic of a line of singer in christoph de menil billow black robes, or of a narrow ladder silhouet against a bare drop. 
 to cut vodka consumpt in the battl against alcoholism, a liter bottl -- a treasur solac for mani russian -- was more than doubl in price to 15 rubles, or about one-tenth of the averag worker month pay.product was curbed, and half the liquor store were closed, increas the averag wait in line to three hours. 
 by midnight, the moon is an intens white spotlight beam on no less than 50-odd ensembl and hundr of onlookers.som partier practic wait in line for the prime spot: a gape hole in the barn below the illumin "live bluegrass music" sign from which lucki one sit and swing their legs. 
 his deputy, william ruckelshaus also refused, and mr. nixon fire him.then mr. nixon turn to the person who was third in line, solicitor general bork. 
 two other station just pump gas.but stand in the midst of them, with it servic bay full and car wait in line, is a minit-lub center. 
 on weekdays, there often no wait.but on stella link road dure a typic saturday rush recently, the line to get into the minit-lub servic bay was at least an hour long. 
 it cost of $22 billion is more than four time libya estim petroleum earn in 1986.the averag libyan must pay for this by stand longer in line for scarc consum goods. 
 "i'd hit ball nights, mornings, when it rained, when it snow -- i could never get enough golf," rememb zembriski."on friday night after work, i use to sleep in the car at public cours so i could be the first in line, as soon as they open the doors. 
 his friend look at him in disbelief."if you realli think that," elia says, "whi aren't you in line appli for amnesty?" 
 they have high regard for some studies, while other research, even if it has enjoy brief, intens popularity, get debunk as unsupport or mislead (includ konrad lorenz "critic period").for parent overwhelm by the advic of so mani researchers, their own pediatricians, and even the cashier in checkout lines, this sift of the evid is useful. 
 the author find littl empir evid to support a posit answer to these questions.parents, then, can nod and smile to the ann landers of the checkout line and escap with their confid intact. 
 he assert that few other compani have the resourc or the desir to take on jwt."if there are ani other bidders, i think the line at the door is veri short," he said. 
 the industri technolog track record in other area is spottier: the know-how is there, but the willing or abil to use it lag far behind.travel today still wait in long line at baggag check-in or at the departur gate -- procedur that can be automated. 
 he say he slip away from his protest doctor, stagger into a govern press confer and announc that he knew the man ident and want to confirm that there was a reward.mr. batuiga made his reput in the 1970s by sever time pass through polic sieg line to negoti the surrend of gunmen who were hold hostages. 
 presid reagan is warn that if the u.s. navi doesn't defend oil ship in the persian gulf, american may soon be wait in gasolin line again. 
 the kid could then take their squid print home to tack on their bedroom wall or stick on the refriger with a squid magnet purchas at the souvenir booth.ther was a long line at the squid face-paint booth, from which small children emerg with larg squid bodi paint on their forehead and 10 squid leg extend down their cheeks. 
 it is also an easi polit target, and it imag of ineffici and corrupt is a drain on the sandinista lag popular support.micoin is wide blame for more problem than ani 11,000-member ministri could ever possibl hope to fix -- from the extra hour consum must wait in line for ration food, to fall agricultur product caus by micoin stifl price controls, to the prolifer of a polit hostil class of small merchant oper outsid the socialist-plan economy. 
 at a micoin neighborhood food store in managua santa ana sur barrio, resid blame the ministri for distribut spoil cook oil that give their children indigestion.onc everi 15 day barrio housew leav bricks, empti paint can and bottl cap outsid the store at 9 a.m. to secur a place in line for the 1:30 p.m. opening. 
 the nikolai quarter, for example, sport a set of new dine accommodations, but a recent hunt for a restaur lunch there was as depress as ever.lin spill out into the street and around corners. 
 mr. trinkl said he recommend that the worker accept the offer after the compani threaten to replac the strikers."w didn't have ani other job for our peopl and i didn't want to put them on the welfar line," he said. 
 the bloomingdal store at the mall, manag john guerra said, post a "double-digit increase" in decemb sale this year.and store throughout the mall were especi crowd the day after christmas, with shopper wait in line for the door to open at 9 a.m. and then flock to the bargain in the trim-a-tre section at bloomingdal to buy decor for next christmas. 
 a cook at a local italian restaurant, the 38-year-old ms. figueroa sat in the back seat of her nephew car so that she would have her own window to roll down.whil mr. parra hope his drive-up window will shorten the line insid the center, he hasn't yet figur out what he'll do if it caus traffic jams. 
 "it wasn't obvious how the assembl process went," he recalls."i said to myself i don't know where the line start and ends. 
 "canada is still tri to get some leverag from the u.s." said mr. waitzer, who warn foreign firm are lose interest in the canadian market."you can onli keep them wait in line for so long," he said. 
 "if i'v ever attend an electr evening," the general motor chairman said on a detroit radio talk show last week, "that was it."h went on: "they have a veri nice custom there of a receiv line.and as i went through the receiv line with my wife barbara, why, we'v gotten to know the presid well enough that his aid doesn't have to introduc us to him, he recogn us. 
 "we told him he could bid with other developers," say meyer frucher, the presid of the batteri park citi authority."sam said he didn't want to stand in a delicatessen line." 
 although mr. aganbegyan is believ to have mr. gorbachev ear on issu of econom reform, he is onli one of mani offici work out detail of what could be a veri controversi and disrupt chang in the soviet economy.an econom reformer, mr. aganbegyan believ that lower subsidi would make the economi more effici and reduc the line and shortag that soviet consum current endure. 
 in fact, she mock herself for occasion exploit it."lik i'll walk into a deli and go right up to the head of a line as though i don't know there a line there and say, i'd like . . . ' or i'll buy a ticket for a movi and go up to the secur guard and say my dog realli can't stand in that line, and he'll say, well, come right in.'" 
 the real bargain go to those tourist with the strong currency.for example, just stand outsid a loui vuitton shop in hong kong and watch middle-class japanes alight from tourist buse and form line on the sidewalk, say mr. white. 
 last year, hutton took a $130 million charg against fourth-quart earn for liabilitii relat to municip bond it had improp sold to custom a few year ago, and merril fear there could be more of such problems, these sourc said.hutton, found in 1904, thus becom the latest in a long line of major secur firm to seek a larger parent. 
 but most major expans effort won't be complet for at least anoth year.in the meantime, travel must risk miss flight becaus they can't find spaces, or must wait in long line to get through exit toll booths. 
 in the meantime, travel must risk miss flight becaus they can't find spaces, or must wait in long line to get through exit toll booths.at newark, though, long line can pay off; driver are occasion let through the booth without paying. 
 in 1978, the year air travel was deregulated, the airlin carri 275 million passengers; this year, the total is expect to be more than 450 million.thi mean crowd park lots, long line in restrooms, flight delay and tedious wait for baggag -- which the faa say are bound to worsen unless airport capac is added. 
 a chao of car and tent and trailer cover a field of trampl tall grass.in late afternoon, bath suit flap on clotheslines, and a line has form outsid the showers. 
 a hundr cowboy and cowgirl race their hors into the arena, the rider forward in their saddl urg the hors faster, circl the arena on the run befor form two parallel line that stretch from one end of the space to the other. 
 in recent months, conga-record break has becom serious business, taint with fierc rivalri and mayb even espionage, all for one sweet goal: a spot in the 1988 "guin book of world records."th race heat up about three week ago, when 10,442 peopl shuffl into a line at the edmonton heritag festiv in alberta, canada, aim to break the previous record of 8,659, set in 1982 in great britain.it took two hour to put the canadian line together, for a conga that last nine minutes. 
 they will use their new-found conga skill to guid a hord of challeng tomorrow on the royal gorg bridg in southern colorado.lorrain payne, who help arrang the line in edmonton, claim she saw the men look for potenti snag and take photograph at her event. 
 ben hart, one of the two men in question, maintain that he start plan the royal gorg event in earli march, well befor the canadian attempt: "it was strict coincidental.w had no idea about the edmonton line until it happened." 
 to break the record, the dancer will have to follow certain rules, say david hoy, manag director of the record book editori offic in middlesex, england.at least 10,443 peopl will have to actual danc -- hand on hip to a syncop latin rhythm -- and the line will have to remain unbroken. 
 "i'm make $5.50 an hour (in houston); in mexico i was make 7,000 peso (about $5) a week."yesterday he took his place in line at midnight. 
 like most bueno air ministries, it is suffus with stale cigarett smoke.th occup appear to be main bore but loquaci hangers-on, who must wait in line 20 minut for the elev to the top floor. 
 but good intent sometim aren't good enough.on recent day, as a jostl crowd of cuban wait in line for more than an hour to get their month allow of beans, rice and other foodstuffs, one of mr. leiva freezer was out of order. 
 those number should improv in 1987 becaus bank have pledg to lend more than $9 billion to mexico, argentina and nigeria this year.but there is a long line of debtor countri look for more loans. 
 whi not talk your way out of your woes?if that sound appealing, get in line, becaus sport psychoanalysi is boom among psychologists, psychiatrist and other aim to tap the lucrat health-and-fit craze. 
 if the model now under scrutini are found to be defective, gm will recal and repair them, he said.th consum group said one of the worst accid involv the car occur in cincinnati on march 3 when, it said, a 1986 oldsmobil delta 88 sudden acceler and ran into a line of custom stand outsid a restaurant. 
 commerci bank trader with firsthand knowledg of the intervent estim that the fed sold $100 million through sever bank in earli new york trading, short after the bundesbank sold a like amount in the open market in frankfurt.th central bank form a skirmish line for the dollar at 1.8840 marks, where they sold the currency, knowledg trader said. 
 in addition, wolfgang r. schmitt, presid of rubbermaid home product division, was name execut vice presid of the company, place him in line to succeed mr. william in the no. 2 spot.in make the announcement, mr. gault said, "we have now provid a clear line of succession" when he retir in 1991 as chairman and chief executive. 
 "how doe the 60s song go about the age of aquarius?w had all the planet in line," mr. channel said. 
 the new law could, of course, provid work for the homeless, who are the one most skill at this task.but how long will the line be at the conserv center? 
 i can do a lot of things.you won't see me at the food stamp line . . . and we'r not go to run a telethon and ask for contributions." 
 these power includ the withhold of materi formal request by the congress.georg washington was the first of a long line of presid to insist on this prerog of the office. 
 "the problem with continent servic is it so unpredictable," say hal salfen, an industri consultant."i had absolut splendid, perfect servic fli continent to guam, but when i got to los angeles, it was back to long line and rude counter help." 
 i wonder if those support the bill ever took a sick child and two well one to the doctor for a routin ill such as an ear infect or strep throat.did they then face anoth 20-plus minut at the drugstor with the same three whini children, one in pain and the other two frustrat while an overwork pharmacist attempt to serv a long line of customers? 
 what custom do is get in the queue.each day, line of them snake across the lobbi of telmex branch offic in the capit to report broken telephones. 
 but the line move slowly; the dispatch typic take 40 minut to answer."thi has happen to me four or five time sinc february," say televis repairman jorg recio garcia, wait in line to report his broken telephone. 
 still anoth say a car crash in his neighborhood two week ago and knock out phone service; no one has come to restor it."thi is horribl -- veri ugly," say the branch manager, whose offic look out over the line of angri customers. 
 compani headquart stand tall over central mexico citi in a vagu m-shape tower.ther are no line of angri customers, no cow managers, no bossi subordinates. 
 "the (baseball) commission job is taken," sniff peter v. ueberroth, who hold the post."besides, he'd have to get in line behind bryant gumbel," the televis newscaster, who said in a recent interview that he want the job. 
 the sign in the airport cafeteria reads: "it is not rude to move ahead of someon if there is a space in the line." 
 i love this sign.i love it becaus it so blith challeng one of the basic tenet i was rais by -- that it is rude to jump ahead of someon in line. 
 but darn it, i just don't want to appear rude."everi time i stand in that line i expect to see some bur construct worker push in front of an elder woman. 
 he seem to believ that south vietnam fell, in part, becaus u.s. command unwis restrain south vietnames militari commanders.and, as much as some of his other critic of the west ring true (peopl get more excit about solo adventur sail the sea in small boat than ten of thousand of vietnames boat peopl cruelli adrift), they aren't origin in thought or expression, but echo the long line of comment who see the west imperil by it love of comfort and lack of intellect. 
 some foreign countri and industri have hire washington lobbyist and law firm to help and have press u.s. compani do busi with them to pitch in as well.sen financ committe chairman lloyd bentsen (d., texas), who co-sponsor the trade bill with sen. john danforth (r., mo.), says: "there a long line of foreign repres wait to see me. 
 but southland could win over custom like mrs. dallas, the denver legal secretary, who rent movi for her son and buy sandwich at the 7-eleven when they'r on special."if they could prove their milk was cheap enough, then i would go to the conveni store to avoid the line at the groceri store," she says. 
 "the real financi and social problem of the countri are deepli rooted," thornton manag ltd., a british fund-manag group, says.in addition, with the economi and stock market recovering, the govern is speed approv of the long line of compani want to issu shares. 
 in southern california, however, where develop have been especi active, legisl and communiti group complain that the mini-mal have led to a host of problem that can't be ignor ani longer.oppon complain that the mini-mal design -- typic a collect of a dozen or so store group in a line or a u-shap or l-shape behind a park lot that front the street -- make them uninvit to pedestrians. 
 but it also said jal and govern transport author fail to detect the flaw dure sever routin inspections.th report said the boe work crew insert a singl line of rivet to the bulkhead when repair a broken tail section, instead of a doubl line as required. 
 "it start to aggrav our agent and inconveni our passengers," say marc wallace, a unit vice president.unit employe began suggest to the continent passeng that they defect to unit shorter line. 
 dinner-t convers was record by the kgb, which made soviet citizen fear of ideolog misstatements, which made their dinner-t convers boring.but not as bore as shop in soviet groceri stores, wait in long lines, be abus by sur state employees, and find almost noth for sale. 
 battl the crowd on new york fifth avenu was no less challenging.ther were long line of shopper wait to enter f.a.o. schwarz, a children toy store, and the fashion trump tower. 
 no heat: from bureaucrat and hotel clerk to students, everyon sit around all day long in overcoat from octob through april.no food: everyth from milk to rice is rationed, but long line and limit suppli mean peopl often wind up with onli a ration ticket on the dinner tabl -- some peopl could show you whole crock fill with expir coupons. 
 sever nation don't count oil as produc until it is sold.thus, kuwait can insist that it is within it product quota even though line of load tanker sail through the persian gulf would suggest otherwise. 
 but mr. walser doe not leav it at that."breakers" doe not end up as anoth in a long line of stori about rigid german who cut loos and lose their digniti in a relaxed, sunni climate. 
 "if we do see consum start to make that connect -- connect the problem on wall street to unemploy that affect them -- then we'll see much more impact on sales," mr. curtin said."with the oil embargo, from day one it was immedi clear to consum what it meant to them personally: longer lines, higher prices. 
 fred mutter someth aloud about how, after all, his student didn't realli know how to drive, and you never knew when she might step on the gas pedal.th line parted, and fred, wield his lollipop stick, motion for me to move on. 
 magnet extend bank hour at the branch on friday and saturday.aft mr. wall statement was releas and distribut by magnet officials, some of the line thin at the branches. 
 "home shop is quick, clean (and) painless," say the roper study."no long lines. 
 and mani of the respons came right out of the music.for instance, the gallop marimba line did suggest the hors run alongsid a train describ by noah from new york. 
 the ghost town at knott berri farm theme park is usual a pretti cheeri place, bustl with cowboy stage shootout on the storefront boardwalks, folk buy souvenir and snack from calico-clad shopkeepers, and line stream onto the park log ride. 
 "the new york stock exchang did not blow up.ther were no line at banks." 
 right now you may be ask yourself: "whi not me?mi boss is a jerk, i'm sick of long line at the bank dure lunch and onli now, decad after kindergarten, have i come to fulli understand the import of a nice nap right after lunch." 
 after the swim meet my wife and i watch as my daughter danc at a team get-together.it made me rememb parish-hous danc when we boy would wait in line to danc slow number with a prematur endow girl name anne.i check the danc floor for my daughter -- no line were forming, yet. 
 they put up with appal and often danger condit becaus other job are hard to come by and becaus the pay, while low by u.s. standards, goe a long way back home.danilo pineda, a filipino ship cook, say that in manila the line of seafar at man agenc are grow longer. 
 it is obvious to anyon that the general qualiti of consum product of all kind is poor, not onli by comparison with those avail in the west but even with the eastern european import that are for sale in the soviet union.and the long line to buy qualiti food or cloth when they happen to be avail demonstr the malfunct of the soviet price system and of the state inabl to produc what consum want. 
 a tall, blond woman push a babi girl in a kanga-rol stroller conced that her time was unusual."but we realli know what commit is about and we'r readi to make it," she said, wait her turn in line. 
 great america, a santa clara, calif., amus park, brag about it thrill roller coaster.but if you want to do someth realli wild, tri cut in line. 
 santa clara won't comment on the lawsuit -- but it will defend it law, adopt in 1986 after the citi bought the amus park.th law make line cutting, shove and other form of rowdi a crime punish by a $1,000 fine or six month in jail. 
 "well, we'r not talk about the hell angel here," fume mr. ince, who note that his client includ an engin and a banker.in the lawsuit, mr. inc say his client hadn't actual cut into line but had step out of line for a moment -- with the permiss of those around them. 
 in another, two client had soak their cloth on a previous great america water ride."th line they were in was in shade, so they stood off to the side in the sun to dri their clothes," say mr. ince.when they tri to reclaim their place in line, however, secur guard nab them and, with littl explanation, turn them over to citi polic who drove them in a paddi wagon for book at the citi jail, the suit alleges. 
 she will say, however, that with two million peopl visit the park annually, the number of line-cut arrest is negligible."besides," she says, "you shouldn't leav the line to get a hot dog." 
 with fewer than 70 shop day till christmas, million of american are avoid long lines, bad weather and crowd park lot by do some or all of their christma shop by mail. 
 he fire those he didn't like, with onli the briefest of explanations, if any.b call to his offic "was like be summon to see god," said lee a. iacocca, now chrysler corp. chairman and perhap the most famous of a line of former ford presid first beknight and later behead by mr. ford. 
 should player and owner resolv their gripe in the next day or two, everybodi will be have a good laugh about all this at next week tailgat parti in stadium park lot across the country. (the two side met for 90 minut yesterday and are schedul to meet again today.)but if the strike drag on anywher near the 57 day of the 1982 strike, a lot of peopl along new york madison avenu and "broadcast row," home to the major advertis and televis networks, will be stand on line to renegoti contract worth hundr of million of dollars. 
 rep. frank annunzio, a rough-hewn chicago machin pol who is the third-rank committe member, is in frail health and isn't like to seek the chairmanship.oth down the senior line eye the post includ del. 
 but then, he went home to massachusetts, devot much of his time to routin state hous duti instead of focus on the campaign.mr. bush wast no time in open an attack on the governor for be just anoth in a long line of liber democrat politician out of touch with the american mainstream. 
 taiwan will export three million person comput this year, up 50% from 1987.long line form outsid disco that charg $20 a head, and $5 a beer, to danc to the beat of import bands. 
 "the thing that hit hardest was the energi crisis," mr. atkin said.if someon "had to wait in line for gas for his car, he couldn't justify" wait for gas for a snowmobile. 
 monday, nov. 7, 7-7:30 p.m. est, on hbo (repeat nov. 11, 16, 20, 26 and 28): "madeline."don't miss this music version of the famous children book that begins: "in an old hous in pari that was cover in vines/liv twelv littl girl in two straight lines." 
 but it had reduc alcohol hard at all while spawn extens moonshin and black-marketeering.it result in sugar hoard for privat product and long line for limit quantiti of vodka. 
 at tampa bay in the nfl, where he sign a six-year, $5.25 million contract, life was financi more secure, but profession precarious.flung into action against the big-tim pros behind a weak line, young threw almost twice as mani intercept as touchdowns, and fled with the ball more often than he ran it. 
 and they reflect the grow turmoil in the u.s. bond trade industry, weaken by anem profit and intens foreign competition.th departur of the three execut mark yet anoth outbreak in a long line of defect and dismiss that have roil the giant secur firm over the past year. 
 "can you imagin thousand of kid walk into these offices, get urin samples, and present them to state offici to be tested?th line would be mile long." 
 there are more charact in the novel than in the film, and consequ more seduct and betrayals.i could critic the film for cut a coupl of these characters, as well as for hammer the novel whirling, vertigin shape into a straight chronolog line. 
 at the sprawl 207th street repair shop in upper manhattan, this shift promis new disciplin for employe use to meet minimum work quota and then have a littl time to themselves.work sudden face dismiss for insubordin or inebriation, or suspens for lesser infract like spend long period in the coffe line or the bathroom. 
 after the fervor of a campaign in which the regim portray the poll as a choic between itself and marxist chaos, there was a hush solemn and respect dure the oct. 5 voting.not a voic was raised, not a badg worn nor banner carried, as peopl wait in long line to put a pencil mark on a piec of paper. 
 "i'd say the $1 million to $15 million market has been the most competit arena of commerci lend in florida for the last few years," say william h. allen jr., chairman of miami-bas atico financi corp. and a former ncnb execut in florida.first union corp., the other charlott bank giant, date it own "sale culture" back to 1984, when it began make a scienc of shorten teller lines, cross-sel product and spot-check employe courtesy. 
 they caus traffic jam in the park lot.they form checkout line that wound all the way back to the meat department. 
 so even though burger king can boast that it whopper hamburg beat mcdonald big mac in tast tests, it has been lose sale becaus it can't promis it custom an ident experi from one burger king to the next.whil one restaur may sparkle, anoth may have long lines, pot hole in the park lot and filthi tables. 
 these days, lishen toy factori can hard keep up with demand.sal soar this summer, when long line of buyer form outsid shanghai no. 1 depart store. 
 militari patrol comb the street of the capital, but there was no sign of disord after a night of uncertainti tuesday that was punctuat by power cut and occasion explosions.peopl wait patient in long line to cast their ballots. 
 gen. pinochet has express "particular faith in the women of chile."fin result had been expect around midnight, but the long line delay the vote count. 
 "we feel comfort that the next time they (united) go to kick tire and look for airplan to buy, we have a good, fair shot with them," an airbus spokesman said.th a-320 transact by unit would have given pan am bad need cash in return for give up it spot in line for the new planes. 
 but by february, when geraghti & miller inc. was brought public by alex.brown along with robertson, it had 125 institut wait in line. 
 critic say that in win preferenti treatment, the debartolo organ play all the right polit note -- includ hire a former governor chief of staff to be track director of oper and grant a $165,000 food servic contract to a compani own by the state speaker of the house.remington is off to a rous start despit some opening-day snafus, which includ slow line at bet window that prevent a number of peopl from wagering. 
 that the trip was a success is due to the georgian themselves, a smile dark-hair peopl who even in the darkest brezhnev day impress the beatl rock group enough to make them write in their song "back in the u.s.s.r." the word "georgia alway on my mind."long befor perestroika the healthi georgian black market provid it citizen with a standard of live here far differ from leningrad and moscow, the citi of food lines. 
 as for new home sales, the outlook continu weak, as evidenc by the 3.3% drop in august hous start out last week.mr. resler ad in jest that anoth "indicator" he like to watch is "the hostil level in groceri checkout lines." 
 they must be ku klux klanner or something.but as mr. newman suggests, about all that distinguish yonker from other citi is it bad luck to be first in line. 
 wind-whip fire race through the sierra nevada foothills, char near 30,000 acres, destroy about a dozen home and prompt about 4,500 peopl to evacuate.in wyoming, firefight took advantag of damp weather to strengthen line around blaze that have burn near one million acr in yellowston nation park. 
 "the whole town has come to aid, but even that is insufficient," he says.a long line, most of women carri small children, stretch outsid the medic tent. 
 the seller of radish and cucumb are bored.so are the frozen fish merchants, but the poultri dealer are busy, watch vacant by custom in line. 
 the close of the cameron plant dash farmer hope of expand market for their promis new crop.with the plant vanish the job of 58 resid and the line of truck that snake into town dure the annual harvest. 
 here at the festspielhaus, the world wagner shrine, they have found the antidot for the master long opera -- long intermiss and long buffets.in a ritual i never grow tire of seeing, the blond young man lift the cover off the tureen and the mere glimps of those fat, white, green-fleck weisswurst readi to bust their skin reviv everybodi on line like the unveil of the holi grail in the master "parsifal." 
 judg pollack, who is known as a tough, brilliant jurist, agre wednesday to do so.th altercation, wit by a long line of attorney wait to file court pleadings, last a minut or so, say a rather baffl mr. pomarico. 
 african bee general domin in mating, but the scientist hope to give a numer edg to the calmer european honeybees, the type wide use throughout north america for honey product and crop pollination.farth north, research are set hundr of trap along three lines: a 100-mile stretch from the coastal town of la pesca to ciudad victoria in mexico; a 125-mile line from tampico to ocampo, also in mexico; and a 100-mile section of the rio grande, rough from brownsville, texas, to rio grand city. 
 "out on long island, there are peopl who are hook on drive-throughs.they'd rather be in a line of 10 to 15 car than park and get out," said a spokesman for chemic bank, a unit of chemic bank corp. 
 if you want to wait in line to climb the statu of liberti or the washington monument, go ahead. 
 in shanghai, china biggest metropolis, consum are withdraw huge sum from save deposit to purchas good in anticip of price increases.long line are form at mani save banks, accord to china daily, which estim that $27 million has been withdrawn in the past two weeks. 
 solut from franc weren't much help.canadian use the north american "qwerty" keyboard, name for the sequenc of key on the top line of letters. 
 elsewhere, earthi is catch on.a brazilian beer commerci show men stand at a line of urin sing the beer theme song. 
 then the women are banish to the sidelines, and the men begin to display their strength.at one point, six of them form a tower of bodies, while a line of smile women, seem unawar of anyth but the music impel them, undul slowli around the group. 
 a substanti contribut to the increas product over the next two year is suppos to be made by the baltic state of latvia and estonia, which have long turn out better-qu good than factori elsewher in the soviet union.a they wait in line at stores, mani soviet grumbl that the varieti and qualiti of product on sale actual have worsen sinc the day of the now-discredit leader leonid brezhnev. 
 mr. levenson has boost his to about 2.5%, produc tv commerci base on the 1960s lovin spoon song, "did you ever have to make up your mind."h is remodel store to speed up the serv line by split off the slow-mov dessert and beverag section from the entre and veget line. 
 mr. questrom resign follow that announc in may.found in 1907 by henri c. marcus and famili members, neiman marcus becam known for it pricey merchandise, extravag custom and line of wait limousin that had ferri some patron from the airport. 
 one reason is that disneyland encourag photo-tak by lend camera without charge, and set up design photo sites.peopl tend to take pictur of -- and thus rememb -- onli pleasant scene like the cute shot with mickey mouse, and not the long line at the ladi room. 
 but their opinion is clear not share by larg number of the soviet public.sinc mr. glazunov latest exhibit open in moscow this summer, thousand have been flock to the palac of youth, wait in line for hour to get in. 
 peopl stood in long line outsid the few oper bakeri and food store in the sudanes capit yesterday, after flood left about 1.5 million homeless and at least 11 dead. 
 "over here is the gay parti line," steve craig, megaquest offic manag in new york, says, point to one bank of monitors."thi is the actress and model line in here." 
 live condit are cramp and spartan, and temperatur usual top 100 degrees.two chow lines, "one spici and one regular," meet the need of both the militari and about 50 indian and filipino civilian worker live aboard, he said. 
 sever speaker at the recent communist parti confer warn that ordinari citizen would be reluct to back the rest of mr. gorbachev reform program unless they could see a clear improv in their live standard and the quantiti of good avail in stores.mani basic foodstuff such as meat, flour and sugar are ration in part of the soviet union, and everywher peopl have to stand in long line for them. 
 yet anoth casualti may be overal spend in restaurants, alreadi slow from the 8% annual gain post in the mid-1980s.consult say mani peopl who have trade up from fast-food chain to sit-down eateri will be get back in the hamburg line. 
 the polish german usual can say no more than "ja" or "nein," but may have advanc degre as teacher or engineers.both group now face sever day of wait in line, with stop at the red cross, at social worker -- and at a cashier who hand out $108 in pocket money to each arrival. 
 the lobbi is elabor decorated, but noisy.larg group of guest wait in line for elev and check-out service. 
 "or a medium?"arkansa gov. bill clinton, the latest in a line of white southern given prime spot at the convention, deliv the sole nomin speech for mr. dukakis, and the governor first campaign swing with sen. bentsen tomorrow is design to re-emphas his commit to challeng the gop in everi region of the nation. 
 by last april, when mr. clausen took his first week off, his fast pace had scare off his first administr assist and run other ragged."th man has an iron will," say an offici onc strand with him in a three-hour recept line at a convent -- without a bathroom break. 
 student of econom learn that this is simpli not true.russian consum now wait in line to buy lemon at a low price. 
 carrier were allow to keep fli the first 291 aircraft off the product line, although they receiv feder aviat administr order to inspect regular for corros in the cold-bond joints.on scenario investig are consid in the aloha case is that corrosion-rel fatigu may have led to "multisit damage" crack run along the horizont line of rivet in a metal splice. 
 in moscow, parti banner aside, the preval ad are the one stuck to lampposts; each has a fring of phone number to tear off and call for puppi or guitar lessons.th queue is still the most effect soviet ad; a russian will join a long line without a clue as to what is for sale at the other end. 
 and sever hundr deleg actual vote against confer resolutions.that was headi stuff, and here in moscow, soviet citizen were talk about it in parks, while wait in line at store and to western correspondents. 
 he fill his car and six big canisters, endur hostil comment from fellow customers.at noon, a truck deliv more gas, reassur those at the end of the 120-car line monitor by polic to prevent doubl parking. 
 i see the crowd and i don't want to stand in line," said krzystof tom.h ultim took a place in line. 
 twin valu stores, for example, will cover 180,000 squar feet -- three time the size of the typic cavern cub store.each store will have 51 checkout lines, requir 600 employe and, compani sourc say, is expect to gross well over $1 million a week. 
 depend on wind direction, that can elimin the use of one of three arriv runways.still, some industri execut and observ wonder whether ani improv in delay would even be noticed, what with the litani of complaint about lost luggage, long line and crowd planes. 
 saatchi & saatchi also hit a high note with an ad creat for britain conserv parti in 1978.the ad featur a pictur of a long line of unemployed. 
 meantime, hungri passeng have to order from mobil cart scatter around the terminal.continent insist that sufficient, but the line to get to the cart are often long -- and there are few place to sit and eat. 
 it is the parent compani of audi of america inc., which import audi car to the u.s.last week, a westchest county, n.y., juri said audi was sole respons for a 1985 accid in which an audi 5000 car hit a car in a bank teller line, which hit ms. ruston car. 
 russian inch toward the checkout counter marvel at the genius of one-stop shopping."you just pick thing out yourself," say a woman in the express line with a block of goat cheese. 
 skates: alpha sport inc., st. paul, minn., agre to grant mitsubishi corp. of japan exclus right to distribut rollerblad skate in japan.th wheel of the skate are mount in a singl line to creat the sensat of ice skating. 
 five million part-tim workers, mani get the minimum wage, want full-tim jobs, the u.s. labor depart says; the figur is unusu high for this late in a busi boom.geologist do low-wag work in retail store will be first in line for job when a big firm come to town, an oklahoma employ servic says. 
 tower over the sand and scrub pine at this citi outskirt is south florida tallest landform -- broward counti last legal dump.lin of truck snake up it sides, ad more than a thousand ton of trash daily. 
 stations, of course, are sweltering.)aft a minut walk to the wall street station and a long wait in a slow line at the token booth, i saw the lexington avenu no. 4 express shut it door and pull away just as i reach the turnstile. 
 the weather in russia stinks.ther is a perfect valid reason whi we have a "negat image" of the russian as a grim-faced, bulki race huddl in long line to buy shrivel rutabagas. 
 but robert fersh bristl at the notion that soup kitchen are thrive becaus of spongers."if it was all freeloaders, then whi didn't we see these line at soup kitchen seven year ago?" ask mr. fersh, food research execut director. 
 "but everi kareem abdul jabbar in japan flock to the boat hope final to find large-s clothes," rememb one u.s. official.for month after, the u.s. embassi here got letter from japanes complain of long lines, no meat and the poor qualiti of u.s. products. 
 bluff work onli if they'r not called.within a few hour after the crash on the enterprise, a marin corp honor guard in dress blue appear on the carrier deck, follow by two aluminum coffin that slowli made their way between two long line of crew members, head bare and bowed. 
 the option is especi appealing, they said, becaus demand for organ is up but donat are down."ther are a lot of peopl that can be help that you would otherwis have wait in line," said dr. dixon kaufman, a transplant fellow at the univers of minneosta. 
 last night, the beij univers student crush forward to listen to speaker who ignor a hand of plain-cloth polic present.nearby, dozen of student crowd under the dim light of bare bulb to read a long line of wall posters, some of which were splatter with red ink to symbol the murder of mr. chai. 
 the result is congestion, harri air-traff control and frequent irat travelers.passeng endur long line for tickets, toilets, taxi and their baggage. 
 m. ali issari, a retir univers professor, park his car in front of a new-hom sale offic near los angel one recent saturday and stuck this sign behind the windshield: "the line for purchas deeridg home start from here."on week later, when sell started, the line had grown to 150 cars, and mr. issari bought the first deeridg home to a round of applaus from a mob of other hous hunters. 
 to see the effect of the anti-alcohol campaign, take a walk along stoleshnikov alley in downtown moscow.at one end of the narrow street, the line to get into a basement beer bar stretch around the block. 
 her decis swift prompt moan from hungarians, includ a sour reader who wrote to the magyar hirlap newspap asking, "doe everi wonder onli last three days?"when the mcdonald restaur open in belgrade, polic were call in to keep watch on the line of custom snake around the block and to limit the number of peopl enter the premis to avoid overcrowding. 
 the best way to reduc eros is to lower price support and target-pric that make it profit for farmer to plant on marginal, high eros low-yield ground.th conserv reserv program is simpli one more of a long line of evas to avoid deal with the fundament irrate of our agricultur programs. 
 these are the same hous democrat who demand that attorney general mees resign if the merest puff of ethic smoke blow out of the independ counsel office.but they are disinclin to look into the affair of the man who is second in the line of presidenti succession. 
 in some of the nuttiest polici ever implement in ani country, the dictat decid to retir his countri foreign debt by export everyth that wasn't nail down.food line are now so long, moscow look like a diner paradise, and tree bark is an offici recommend dietari supplement. 
 the boom is strain facilities."if you want to tee off on bethpag {in new york} on a saturday morning, you have to get on line at 3:30 a.m. or 4 a.m.," say charl robson, of the metropolitan profession golfer association. 
 a recent seminar in mexico citi began with discuss of martin luther king jr., and end with practic exercises.in one, the student form a human chain, while their teacher play the role of a counterdemonstr crash into the line. 
 some peopl actual think a long supermarket checkout line is a godsend. 
 this clear isn't the think of those seen at fashion spot like spago, the los angel restaurant, where guest are definit paler.at the stock exchange, a popular nightclub, doorman ken martin say watch the line of peopl wait to get in use to be "like look into the sun." 
 the immigr and natur servic had estim two million person would appli and that as mani as 3.9 million were eligible.in houston, line of famili wrap around the shop mall that hous the legal center. 
 damag was extens and it wasn't known how long the plant would be closed.pet beutel, analyst for elder futures, inc., new york, comment that the plant shutdown "won't creat line at the gasolin pumps, but it will tighten supplies." 
 mr. mitterrand, mr. chirac, and a former premier, raymond barre, want to crack down on illeg immigrants, but not to discrimin against legal immigrants.mr. le pen want to reserv job and govern subsidi to the french, put the immigr at the end of the line -- and send the illeg home. 
 it justifi the requir on it need for inform to fulfil it legisl power to appropri money.ther is a line of suprem court cases, date back to 1821, uphold congress impli power to demand information. 
 able-bodi mule are herd in group into a chute, where veterinarian give them a once-ov and check off their numbers, which are stuck to their forehead like chiquita stickers.som of the mule jostl in line, some tri to bolt for freedom, but most quick catch the old "hurri up and wait" drafte spirit, gaze about with big brown eye and then readili board a stock trailer. 
 daewoo should know.to demonstr solidar and irrit daewoo motor, the union there got all worker to use onli one of the plant 15 cafeterias, creat long line and stop work. 
 the group, head by manag director arthur nagl and daniel o'connell, is said by industri sourc to have line up sever institut and individu as financi backers, includ the high success leverag buy-out investor raymond chamber of wesray corp.th seven join an increas long line of invest banker special in high-profit deal make who have decid to go out on their own in pursuit of more money and influence, leav behind larg organ with high overhead and low profit margin in mani other aspect of the business, particular secur trade and sales. 
 ford may have a better idea, but general motor is no dummy.tak the situat at detroit metropolitan airport, where long ticket-count line have been the norm sinc northwest airlin takeov of republic. 
 nor doe it benefit northwest employe when they'r member of the travel public.lik everyon but the gm crowd, the northwest spokesman says, northwest employe have to stand in the usual lines. 
 mr. wilson wife was laid off from gm hamtramck plant a year ago becaus the car built there weren't sell well.h says, "the drug-sel line in my neighborhood are get longer. 
 mr. gore remark about mr. castro and mr. arafat refer to mr. jackson celebr meet with the two men.mr. gore show in connecticut was anoth in a line of dismal perform sinc his impress show in the south three week ago. 
 our walk through the dens veget of the reserv was accompani by the loud cri of multicolor macaw fli overhead.oth bright color bird perch in the tree around us, and industri "leaf-cutter" ant form move green line that wander on and off of the trail befor us. 
 taxi driver hector pina, for example, now keep a magnifi glass in his glove compart to scrutin notes.checkout line slow to a crawl as cashier not onli count their change, but read it, too. 
 each store will have one employe whose main chore will be to tidi up.and an increas in the number of checkout clerk should reduc the wait in line, which were longer than the competition. 
 one fan arriv at 4 a.m.and found 20 peopl ahead of him."sometim the line stretch 60 yards, three or four peopl wide," say white-hair joe keesler, the owner. 
 discont is strongest among the young."mani young peopl here are critic of the government," say a jean-clad teen-ag wait in a block-long line outsid cafe nord, an east berlin disco. 
 he got there befor anyon els to wait for the door to open on the first day the agenc was to begin screen applic for travel to china."bi be the first in line, i hope my famili would be convinc that i did what i could to come home sooner," he says. 
 at age 43, wait in a long ladi room line dure a break in a busi meet was a new experience; i usual had the room to myself. 
 in 1986, 40% of all account and auditor in the u.s. were women, up from virtual none 20 year ago.th wait in the fasb ladi room line cap some recent experi that convinc me that the "glass ceiling" that suppos keep women from rise abov a certain level in corpor becaus they are women is a lot of baloney. 
 her ask price is 15 rubl a kilo, which come to about $12.50 a pound at the offici rate of exchange.unlik the drab state food outlets, this market, a rubl away from red squar by cab, has no line and the salespeopl realli want to sell what they'v got. 
 it all part of a system of control access to desir commod and desir freedom of movement and action that pervad almost all area of life here in which peopl are act on their own, not as part of a collective.lin turn individu into an ad hoc collective. 
 if you should want to tri one, i recommend the stolovia upstair next to the central market.on a sunday at midday, it had no line and the staff seem quit proud to be serv a sound meal to the citi foremost food purveyors. 
 from aiglemont, the aga khan estat near chantilly, he direct the 150 peopl who administ $130 million a year in grants, who design school to be built by villag and who give award for the best in islam architecture.to world leaders, the aga khan is a figur worthi of receiv line and state dinners. 
 agent often reviv passeng who are wedg behind fake paneling, stack like cordwood into van or pile into semitrail that drip urin and sweat from the overcrowding."it make you sick to see littl kid stuck in the trunk or the women who you know get rape or beaten," say agent arthur lamberson, a lanki 15-year veteran, as he monitor an endless line of vehicles. 
 shopper must bag their groceri in most supermarkets, a requir that doesn't dent the high food prices.in return, you have to wait as long as 40 minut in long checkout lines. 
 fanni fouri is a white south african, which make him one of this countri more privileg citizens.so whi is he wait in line at a relief center for a handout of corn meal and can sardines? 
 "so what are you go to get with jess jackson?you'l have longer welfar lines, and the ladi in front of you in the supermarket line is go to have veal and shrimp and steaks, and i got chop meat, and she got food stamps, and i got to count my dollars." 
 he isn't like to get it.in fact, the counsel, gerald ducharme, worri that the european communiti big overhaul of merger matters, part of the ec campaign to remov intern trade barrier by 1992, will do littl more than lengthen the long line of bureaucrat ford alreadi must negoti with. 
 we meet host roy scheider in the familiar environ of red square, but immedi we are carri away between the wintri bank of the volga, over the crystallin water of lake baikal, through the sunlit market of iblisi, abov the misti peak of the caucasus, and across the golden grassland of the ukraine.if our mental pictur of the u.s.s.r. previous has consist of gray, grim folk wait in line to buy a few shrivel vegetables, we'll be surpris by the stun cinematographi of michael reagan. 
 but what is a travelogue, if not an effort to display onli that which is attractive?"portrait" show one line of consumers, but quick identifi them as new year celebr in a "shop frenzy" of gift-buying, because, as mr. scheider intones, "the russian love their children." 
 in respons to a 0.6% cut in it budget, the post offic has cut back window hour by 10% and end sunday mail collections.and next month the 40 million or 50 million american who mail their tax return around april 15 will face long line at their local post offic as the price of a first-class stamp goe up to 25 cents. 
 at the same time, distribut mistak often left the shelv empti of good that shopper did want.and even when shopper found what they wanted, some gave up and went elsewher becaus cost-cut staff reduct meant intermin wait in checkout lines. 
 with the heavi competit for systems, even some of the more aggress bidder are be price out of some markets."w just bid $2,000 per subscrib for some rather ordinari system and we were sixth in line," say jeffrey a. marcus, chairman of denver-bas western tele-commun inc. 
 dure the earli 1980s, investor were obsess with the week money statistics.long line form in the lobbi of the feder reserv bank of new york each week, and dozen of fed-watch churn out lengthi treatis on what each squiggl in m1 might mean. 
 miami beach millionair victor posner began work friday at camillus house, an emerg shelter for the homeless here, admit approxim 800 hungri peopl to it cafeteria-styl food line. 
 mr. mulheren spent thursday night in jail.ear friday afternoon, the arbitrag was led into a counti courtroom, his left wrist shackl to a line of a dozen other prisoners. 
 univers nation bank in palo alto, calif., has tellers, but it serv coffe in real china and offer after-hour servic by appointment.robert tennyson, a travel-ag operator, took his busi to univers nation about a year ago, after crocker nation bank was acquir by well fargo & co. follow the merger of the big banks, servic at the local branch was "a nightmare," accord to mr. tennyson: teller line of 15 to 30 minut "were not uncommon"; the bank "lost one of our check for six weeks," and it "treat us like we were nonexistent." 
 "some fund group were beg peopl to come in earli last year," say john foppiano, a tax partner at price waterhous & co."but we won't be see ani line at mutual-fund sale offic this april 15." 
 at addenbrooke's, the hospit where the pay soviet journalist got treatment, about two-third of case classifi "urgent" have wait more than a month, and some 40% of those hope for "non-urgent" procedur have been wait for more than a year.citizen with privat insur or foreign who pay like mr. loui can jump the line at public hospitals. 
 in big-tim corpor bankruptci storms, lowli sharehold are start to steal some thunder.traditionally, sharehold have been the last in line. 
 it was steep by american standards, mayb $20 per person, but unimagin extravag for a famili earn a normal wage in rubles.a the american wife of a resid u.s. correspond said in the passport line at moscow sheremetyevo airport: "this is a great place for lose weight." 
 what doe that candid do?pat robertson, say republican charl west, 62, himself a minister, "is go to say, let us pray, and when they kneel, he go to the front of the line." 
 slight better financ and more ambiti entrepreneur have launch cottag industri to turn out can fruits, ketchup, shoe and handicrafts.even more intrepid are govern worker who spend hour away from their desk endur long, snail line in order to buy such care ration item as soap, shampoo, diaper and clothing. 
 the feder communic commiss reinstat it program to help minor entrepreneurs, but the first group in line for the aid is the famili of stock manipul ivan boesky. 
 snowflak swirl and the wind creep in through crack in a wall of the shack where santiago medrano lives.mr. medrano fold his arm and shiver as he wait in line for the even meal of corn tortilla and shred beef. 
 an ambul trail the candid limousine.polic car form the vanguard and rear guard; other polic car block off all the crossroad to make sure an errant john deer doesn't break the line. 
 the other day, the press van becam separ from it five companion vehicl as the motorcad pull away from the blackhawk hotel here in davenport to start a long campaign day.a coca-cola truck crash the line. 
 "but i'm the onli republican candid who go to vote for that treati in the senate."mr. bush campaign as a man in logic line to the white house. 
 teacher say they can't recal a singl week in the past four year when they didn't go on strike.in the courtyard, under a corrug metal roof, a score of mother wait in line for their children report cards. 
 while the campaign was mr. gibbon idea, however, he won't be pay for it: the donat will come out of the chain nation advertis fund, which is financ by the franchisees.and by base donat on bk doubles, a new double-hamburg line the fast-food chain is tri to push, burger king work a sale pitch into it public-servic message. 
 the day was satur with the weight of it own impend history.long line of peopl wait to buy special souvenir world seri postcard with offici postmarks. 
 "shortage" and "crisis" becam buzz words, although neither realli applied.th spot disloc that show up were larg the result of confus (much of it in washington), though that was cold comfort for driver wait in mile-long line at the gas pumps. 
 board of education, was such an issue.in our time abort has becom another, best left to a line of suprem court decis rather than to the chao of 50 state legislatures. 
 yet in mr. laband rehash of free-market logic, human greed and self-interest are the onli permiss psycholog reactions.allow uncontrol price for necess would inde shorten the line at stores, as he contends. 
 but not becaus resourc are go to their most effici use, leav scarc good "alloc to those buyer who place the highest valu on them."rather, line would diminish becaus at higher price mani victim could not afford necess such as food and medic supplies. 
 under the contract hydro-quebec was to suppli 400 megawatt of power to central main power start in 1992, 600 megawatt start in 1995 and 900 megawatt start in 2000.hydro-quebec said main regul refus to approv the contract mean central main power has lost it place in line. 
 more important, however, is the recent exodus of german from the "better half" to the west.ther is a long line of east german wait to get out. 
 over the year mani have even risk their live to leave.i have never been abl to find a line of peopl wait to enter. 
 although agricultur depart offici thought they couldn't prove richco was such an alter ego, accord to mr. glickman, they still conclud that they had legal ground for suspend richco becaus the compani is under mr. rich control.in investig richco capitalization, ad gregori frazier, a glickman aide, "they trace the line of ownership back through marc rich & co. to rich himself." 
 in ani case, the ibm announcement, come on top of hewlett-packard recent introduction, should acceler the move to laser printers, which are faster and quieter and print neater than dot-matrix printers, but which have been too expens for some tastes.that certain mean more conveni for mani users, who now may have to walk across the offic to wait in line to print a letter on a laser printer. 
 this mean that the current domest deficit must be financ with bonds, which of cours becom readili market in moscow, leningrad, new york and london if the bond carri the promis to pay princip and interest in gold.indeed, i would expect the soviet union could step to the front of the line in seek credit at the lowest possibl interest rate. 
 the govern in east berlin agre to allow about 10,000 of it citizen at the west german embassi in pragu to emigr but ban unrestrict travel to czechoslovakia, which has emerg as the main gateway to the west.th clampdown on travel came after hundr of east german storm through polic line to get insid west germani embassi compound in an attempt to follow near 40,000 other who have fled. 
 but the agreement gave znaniy the right to omit the final chapter, which deal with religi upbring of children in the family, accord to the russian translator, renata ravich.judg by the line at the book fair, soviet publish could make a fortun if they onli had the nerv to push religi glasnost a littl further. 
 bankamerica has been lead the pack, hand out free check account and push credit line with no up-front charges.it seattle-bas seafirst corp. unit is offer five buck to ani custom who has to wait in line more than five minut (it paid out about $2,000 so far). 
 for one thing, the place is such a hit that ms. brigg husband, who use to hold the titl of most frequent guest (probabl just check to see what leftov he'd be eat that night), rare get to eat at his favorit restaur anymore."h has to get in line like everyon else," said his wife, with a helpless shrug. 
 mr. virnich said it was his understand that his predecessor intend to make an offer to purchas eac, which for more than a month has been seek a buyer.whil he reiter today that eac is proceed with that effort, mr. virnich said, "we'v got a lot of interest parties, ad that mr. fritzsch is "go to be in the same line with everyon else." 
 mr. giblen is the first to conced that smith's, which oper 94 store in eight western states, is well run and a nice place to shop.it large, modern store combin groceri and drug are full of wide aisl and beam employees, who seem make it their goal for custom to breez through checkout lines. 
 there were immedi ego and technic problem to deal with."it was like tri to shepherd a group of wild anim into a straight line," said one of the participants, who ask not to be named. 
 just think of it.airlin hold you captiv for hour -- in madden ticket counter lines, in smoke-fil airports, and in plane that seem perman park on runways. 
 "microwav have chang our percept of time in the 80s much as telephon chang them at the turn of the century," say mona doyle, presid of consum network inc., a consum research firm in philadelphia."it has made even fast-food restaur not seem fast becaus at home you don't have to wait on line." 
 on the way to work one morning, he stop at the build to tell mr. arkhipov: "don't forget the drain today."back in his office, the line of peopl wait to see him has dwindled, so mr. goncharov stop in to see the mayor, yuri khivrich. 
 how about lower the stress level of america veri stressed-out shoppers.it emerg that one of their top pet peev is wait in long line while other regist or window stay closed. 
 he hastili kiss the tarmac at windhoek airport and then gave his mother a quick hug.h proceed brisk through a recept line of parti offici and old friends, and he bare had time to tell the news media "i am happi to be back home" befor one of his bodyguard tug his elbow and said "comrade, let move." 
 he proceed brisk through a recept line of parti offici and old friends, and he bare had time to tell the news media "i am happi to be back home" befor one of his bodyguard tug his elbow and said "comrade, let move."then he was gone, disappear in an offici motorcad that roll past a mile-long line of support outsid the airport. 
 naturally, when the cub won the pennant in 1932, we want to see a world seri game," he goe on."th first one in chicago was on a saturday, and chester and i got to the ballpark friday night to get in line for tickets. 
 in this case, the govern said, the aim was to claim unlaw tax losses.defens lawyer argu in their 43-page memorandum that there was a long line of case allow tax loss in case that were almost the same as the one against the princeton/newport defendants. 
 suddenly, a blue truck drive up and deliv some boxes.a they are unload at a desk near the cashier, a line quick form around the desk, even though peopl don't know what the box contain. 
 consid mr. adorno, the young new yorker who paid $3.30 to cash his paycheck.mr. adorno shrug his shoulder when ask whi he doesn't use a bank instead and says, "the line at the bank are longer." 
 four year ago, antonio mamani, a truck driver for a state mine company, carri his pocket money in a burlap bag becaus the devalu peso were too bulki to fit in his trousers.th price of a movi ticket often rose while he wait in line to buy it. 
 with less competit and less of a chanc for newcom to get into the game, these u.s. carrier will have a more stabl and profit financi environ than they'v had in the past, say georg james, presid of airlin econom inc., a washington consult firm.moreover, he says, major u.s. air carrier also have such asset as undervalu real estate, valuabl land slots, airport gates, salabl aircraft and even posit in line to take deliveri of new planes. 
 warsaw, saturday, aug. 19: the first sign of the intens western interest in this countri show up outsid my plane window as we touch down here: a white boe jet mark "unit state of america" park among the aeroflot plane on the tarmac.insid the terminal, the first of mani long line is at the currenc exchange. 
 some 60 tire pole queue in the lobbi of super sam, a big food market.they haven't reach food line yet; this is a line for shop carts. 
 there is no sugar.to pay for their purchases, shopper stand in yet anoth line. 
 he seek the hous investig "to ensur that the public record is clear."mr. frank troubl are simpli the latest in a long line of ethic peccadillo -- financi and sexual, heterosexu and homosexu -- that have left politician and their advis search for guidelines. 
 fortunately, 80% of polish agricultur is alreadi privat owned, though farm are usual onli three to six acres.if the state choke off it ruinous 15%-a-week hyper-inflation, sold or gave away larger tract of land to privat farmer and abolish price-fix market boards, poland food line could start to melt away. 
 congressmen sit in rayburn hous offic build 2358 -- the appropri subcommitte on transport -- could provid the answer.thi particular day, a long line of lobbyist and observ wait in the hall outsid the committe room to no avail: the panel has vote to close it meet to the public, and now is in the process of negoti which project get fund and which one don't. 
 on a given summer day, some 150,000 peopl pass through the turnstil of disney parks, estim tom powell, the editor of amus busi magazine.they spend at least $10 each on food and souvenirs, he says, and they are happy, or at least willing, to stand in hour-long lines. 
 "as junk-bond issuer can't make their interest payments, there will be a reckoning," he said.elsewher downtown, big line form for ticket to the illinoi lotteri saturday lotto drawing. 
 as they stood in the charl schwab offic late yesterday, the investors, mani of them elderly, stay near the machines.they took turn punch in their stocks, then head to the back of the line. 
 just two week ago the govern freed food price as part of it reform program, do away with the meat-rat system that been around sinc the time of martial law.th result has been a run on meat that mean the line and discont are even greater than before. 
 in june, the naderit consum group buyer up made a media splash by predict tight suppli would send gasolin price soar by 10 cent a gallon this summer, and could lead to 1970s-style gas lines.pump price instead have drop seven cent a gallon sinc june, and even remot resort area haven't seen ani lines. 
 at the same time, saratoga is up to date enough to make wander new yorker feel at home.sign in front of sever of the mans proclaim them to have been condo-ized, the track offer pick six and trifecta wager along with other new-fangl bet gimmicks, and line everywher are manhattan-long. 
 compani such as gypsum market usg, hotel oper holiday and publish harcourt brace jovanovich have fend off raider by borrow to pay big dividends.eith way, the stub stand behind a long line of bondhold if a compani is dissolved; onli after debt is satisfi can stubhold stake a claim to asset or earnings. 
 that produc a return of $2.40 on a $2 win bet and made such ticket as valuabl as souvenir as in bill and coins.payout-window lines, however, indic that most winner were cash theirs. 
 may speed up customsth u.s. custom servic think it can shorten the line for clear custom -- at least for businesses. 
 as tea is served, a young girl tell of be order out of her famili home in bulgaria and be brought to the polic station.ther she wait in line for more than eight hour for a passport -- onli to be sent home without one. 
 at london gatwick airport, delay are so bad the airport has put up two marque with 1,000 extra seats, and brought in clown to entertain children.in honolulu, travel come from asia have been stuck in two-hour line at custom and immigration. 
 by contrast, travel to asia encount most of their problem on the ground.at tokyo narita airport, industri offici say, it can take an hour and a half to park and get through the airport custom and immigr lines; they cite an expect 16% increas in the traffic this summer. 
 earli next year, work is to begin on a three-year project to add 33 more gates.but the next major expansion, which is to overhaul the departur hall and replac the two oldest line of gates, isn't schedul to occur until 1998. 
 but lawmak argu that drop direct loan wouldn't save much money and that disadvantag entrepreneur would have a hard time compet for the guarante loans."peopl are wait in line for those loans. 
 it at the orpheum, where, whatev els you may say about the proceedings, there at least no wait for the ladi room dure intermission.th onli line is outsid the men -- mr. busch tri and true fans, who'v been support this master of camp farc sinc the beginning. 
 the burbank, calif.-bas entertain concern also said it tentat has plan for a new "sea-ori theme park" around the queen mari ship and spruce goos airplan attract in long beach, calif., which the compani obtain through it acquisit of wrather corp. last year.th expans of the $500 million disney-mgm studio attract was disclos by disney chairman and chief execut officer, michael d. eisner, when he respond to an articl in the orlando sentinel about crowd condit and long line at the park. 
 q: what are you most proud of have done as enforc chief?a: it would have to be the line of case -- levine, boesky, drexel, et al. 
 as i look back and i think of major case that have been brought in the past, there the whitney case, against the presid of the stock exchang for manipulation, a veri import case. {in that case, former new york stock exchang presid richard whitney plead guilti to two count of grand larceni in 1938, lead to high public hear on what william o. douglas, then the sec chief, call "the whole anatomi of wall street chicaneri and corruption."}i think this line of case will be rememb as equal import for their time. 
 in meet with faa and transport depart officials, they said that inspect each electron item would turn airport secur checkpoint into giant bottlenecks.som passeng caught in long line would miss their flights. 
 meanwhile, merchant in woodstock, n.y., say busi is slow."eith they'r all wait for august or they envis mud and long line of traffic," say jean gaed of the local chamber of commerce, ad that no special event is planned. 
 these protein bind tight to specif molecules, offer the prospect of such applic as the diagnosi and treatment of cancer and the separ and purif of materials.in addition, mr. frashier will push for develop of a line of protein-bas adhes and coat products. 
 william gates, founder and chairman of microsoft corp., becam the person comput industri first billion-dollar man yesterday.th 31-year-old harvard univers dropout hold 11,018,955 shares, or about a 42% stake in microsoft, which supplies, among other things, the intern program that control the basic function of intern busi machin inc. pc line of person comput and compat machines. 
 term weren't disclosed, but industri sourc said the price was about $2.5 million.th sale includ the right to germain monteil in north and south america and in the far east, as well as the worldwid right to the dian von furstenberg cosmet and fragranc line and u.s. distribut right to lancast beauti products. 
 amc execut have said they are frustrat about the time of the bid, contend amc was just about to turn the corner after a string of troubl years.th compani jeep sale are strong and amc is just now introduc line of larger renault car that could final give it a posit in a broader segment of the auto market -- but onli if current skeptic buyer start return to amc showrooms. 
 separately, jame e. edwards, an at&t senior vice presid who preced mr. cassoni as head of the comput division, said he is leav the company, effect monday.accord to manag in the computer, or data systems, division, at&t will announc new product that includ an addit to it 3b minicomput line, softwar product to connect it machin to those of intern busi machin corp., a laser printer, the latest version of the unix v oper system softwar and some local area network products. 
 sever data system execut have quit recently.john walsh, a vice presid in charg of the 3b minicomput line, surpris colleagu in januari when he left to join a small west coast videoconferenc concern. 
 face with the innov competit and an overal flat market sinc 1984, nelson, the biggest u.s. religi publisher, lost market share and now is tri to recov ground.it "precious moment bible," illustr with a popular line of cherub children characters, has sold more than a million copi in about a year. 
 rjr nabisco inc. said it expect to retain at least 95% ownership of it tobacco busi if it decid to spin off the line in a master limit partnership. 
 ltv has had $4.69 billion in loss over the past five years, most from it beleagu steel unit, the nation second largest.ltv plan to reorgan around it aerospac and defens unit, it onli profit line, which account for almost two-third of ltv 1986 oper profit of $171.9 million. 
 not accord to jame uffelman, a 43-year-old comput specialist with a theori about corpor succession.mr. uffelman establish his theori while develop a line of birthday card that list birth date of famous people. 
 howel book hous inc. of new york has been success publish book about dog for 26 years.it mainstay is a line of 60 books, each devot to a differ breed. 
 "with a broad line of product direct at kids, children and teen-agers, it will get us away from a lot of the volatil in this (toy) business."world of wonder teddi ruxpin animated-bear line of toy was the industri largest seller in 1985 and it lazer tag game was no. 1 last year, the execut said. 
 mr. stein estim that dure the compani next fiscal year, it toy busi will account for 75% to 80% of sales, school accessori 5% to 10% and consum electron 10% to 20%.among the new product in the school-accessori segment is a line call class act. 
 in a telegram to 5,500 bank that issu visa cards, charl t. russell, visa usa president, warned, "this move is an attempt by american express to further it presenc in the retail bank market by acquir addit relationship(s) with your better customers."h suggest that banker call jame d. robinson iii, chairman of american express, to "voic your displeasur over his decis to enter one of your most profit line of service." 
 but the move may also reflect an effort to subcontract work to outsid vendor as part of a broader strategi design in part to trim costs.th no. 1 auto maker in recent month has been shed some small oper and has join in joint ventur to make and market such product as it heavi truck line. 
 gynex inc. said two generic oral contracept develop by gynex laboratori inc. are be recal by the distributor, g.d. searl & co., a unit of monsanto co., st. louis.gynex inc., which develop gynecolog and reproduct pharmaceut products, said the recal is be conduct as a prevent measur becaus a limit number of packag of the gynex line of contracept may be miss tablet or contain some that are out of sequence. 
 chrysler corp. also is offer financ incent and rebat that don't have an expir date.a ford analyst said anoth reason for offer the incent on taurus and sabl is to keep sale balanc across car lines. 
 bayli corp. said it acquir a 55% stake in chute corp., which design and market the "code bleu" line of denim sportswear. 
 bayly, which manufactur jean and leisur wear, said it purchas the share from two outsid investor for an undisclos cash payment at close and an addit undisclos sum to be paid over a three-year period.bayli has had a licens agreement with close held, seattle-bas chute for the "code bleu" line sinc june 1984. 
 the fiber segment, which earn $542 million last year, has been experienc annual product gain of 7%.respons has been strong to a new line of stain-resist carpet materi and kevlar, a steel-lik fiber use in such item as clothing, bulletproof vest and helmets. 
 intern busi machin corp. and the person comput industri are approach an import crossroads.next month, the comput giant is wide expect to unveil a new line of pcs that will diverg from the industri standard. 
 the new product will present a pain choic for other comput makers, softwar compani and customers, who will have to decid whether to stick with the exist standard, which was itself develop by ibm, or to follow big blue into new territory.th new line will be ibm shot at reassert it leadership in the person comput market. 
 ibm is expect to unveil a much differ line of pcs next month in a riski bid to reclaim market share. 
 this year was to have been the watersh in that effort, in amc view.amc dealer final will get a wider line of car to sell, and the compani just began product of chrysler m-bodi car on a contract basi at amc kenosha, wis., plant. 
 ross, which plan to close 25 of it 146 stores, said it expect to report a net loss of about $34 million for the fourth quarter and a net loss for fiscal 1987 of about $42 million.th loss result in larg part from a fourth-quart pre-tax charg of about $40 million to cover the store close and the discontinu of some poor perform merchandis lines. 
 one major hurdl remained, accord to mr. bidwell, who spent 27 year at ford and was hertz corp. presid and chief oper offic befor join chrysler in 1983.chrysler and renault couldn't agre on a valu for the stake in amc, particular with amc just about to start sell new line of renault cars. 
 sear becam the top retail by cater to young famili with a phalanx of new suburban store and sturdy, no-nonsens merchandise.th rang of accept tast in the late 1950s was so narrow, in fact, that hart schaffner & marx prosper in men tailor cloth despit offer onli three style of suit in it best lines. 
 coca-cola has gone from a singl product to what it maker now call an "umbrella brand," with permut that includ coca-cola classic and diet cherri coke, each aim at a differ type of consumer.hartmarx has expand the three basic suit style in it hart schaffner & marx line to 15. 
 "there noth (realli good that's) american," say alex gonzalez, an assist manager, after list the virtu of an expens german brand.of the store best american line, he say sadly, "the steel is good, but there a problem with the handle. 
 two events, however, would help boost the struggl company.in 1970, amc bought it jeep line from kaiser industri -- a busi that boomed. 
 s&p said chrysler was "receiv a busi with question prospects."analyst said the most valuabl part of the acquisit is amc jeep line, which serv the armi dure world war ii and which the compani acquir in 1970. 
 onc the acquisit is completed, the real work would begin.whil chrysler would get at least two acknowledg jewel in the transact -- the popular and profit jeep line of util vehicles, and a new $675 million state-of-the-art assembl plant in bramalea, ontario -- it also would have to contend with some problems. 
 reebok said the acquisit would posit it for further growth in the expand athlet and casual-sho market.in addit to it line of athlet footwear -- from aerob shoe to volleybal shoe -- avia make walk shoes, casual footwear and hike boots. 
 but plenti of l.a. bud restaurateur are show less restraint.don taco, home of the pastrami rice bowl, now featur a full line of chines burritos, while one of the don princip rivals, the oki dog, offer the oki dog, a chili-d and tortilla-wrap frankfurter. 
 "but smaller good are strong."new york-bas penney said apparel and soft home furnish were it fastest-grow line last month and contribut to a 5.5% rise in februari sale for store open more than one year. 
 the company, which had said it would instal driver-sid air bag on oldsmobil delta 88 model as option equip in the 1988-model year, said it would instal the safeti devic on addit model in futur years.th no. 1 auto maker said an estim 500,000 air bag will be instal dure 1990 on select car lines. 
 tonka said the propos acquisit is part of it strategi to expand it base of toy that don't swing wild with fads.tonka said ertl will doubl tonka revenu from it most stabl toy line, tonka trucks. 
 mr. inston said the compani has an order backlog valu at "about $16.6 million, up from $12.1 million at this time last year."initi respons has been strong for a new line of uninterrupt power suppli design for sophist electron equipment, he said. 
 he ad that custom reaction to the compani i.o.u. brand of sportswear, introduc in the fall of 1985 and promot heavili last year, also was "excellent" in the second half.th line, aim at young men and women, produc higher profit margin than other name-brand clothes, he said. 
 the line, aim at young men and women, produc higher profit margin than other name-brand clothes, he said.mr. sullivan also said the line illustr a chang over the past year in the compani merchandis strategy. 
 the company, which boost the number of store to 388 from 334 in the fiscal year just ended, said it expect to open anoth 40 to 50 in the current year.bi fall, it also hope to expand it i.o.u. line to repres between 25% and 30% of the merchandis sold in the two divis that carri it. 
 the younger mr. noland, 43 year old, is current a vice presid and manag of merchandis for plumb and heat products.thos line last year account for 62% of the wholesal distributor $426.5 million of sales. 
 and it seem to be succeeding.in miss kamali case, the disrupt of her homework oper prompt her to suspend her wholesal oper and cancel her spring line of clothes. 
 mr. wolfer said the compani 10 store that sell children cloth exclus have remain profitable, but the 25 store that sell both women and children cloth have "perform poorly."h ad that the compani has probabl been attempt to offer too wide a choic of size and styles, and plan to elimin petit and larg size from it women line. 
 term weren't disclosed.th toy maker said that under the agreement, it gain the australian and new zealand market right to sever toy line joint develop by tonka and bandai and alreadi sold in the u.s. 
 digit equip corp. introduc three midrang comput in it vax line, indic that the compani is move to limit possibl inroad by intern busi machin corp. 
 american motor drop plan to build a new line of jeep at it kenosha, wis., plant, cite an impass with the uaw union. 
 american motor corp., cite an impass with the unit auto worker union, said it decid against build a new line of jeep vehicl at the compani kenosha, wis., plant and that the vehicl will be made at anoth site. 
 fruit of the loom, which was farley apparel inc. until be renam last month, will offer today 27 million common share at $9 apiece.th renam offer doesn't includ the farley line of acm and dingo boots.origin part of the offering, the line will remain part of mr. farley huge privat held conglomerate. 
 origin part of the offering, the line will remain part of mr. farley huge privat held conglomerate.th boot line contribut less than 5% of pretax profit of the farley apparel operations. 
 digit equip unveil three midrang comput in it vax line, indic the compani is move to limit possibl inroad by ibm. 
 he was known for a reserv person style but for incis strateg thinking.in his tenure, rjr divest non-consum busi like ship and oil and increas branch out from tobacco into food and soft-drink lines. 
 the unit auto worker said it will resum bargain with american motor corp. over contract concess at the auto maker kenosha, wis., plant.th talk broke off last friday and amc had said that, becaus of the impasse, it decid against build a new line of jeep vehicl at the plant. 
 wang laboratori inc. introduc a replac for it 2200 seri of small busi comput that will continu the 15-year-old line. 
 the wang cs comput will run the same softwar as the 70,000 wang 2200 seri comput alreadi installed.som wang user had worri that the compani might stop make the line as it concentr on sell offic autom product to larg and medium-s organizations. 
 under the agreement, lyphom said it will sell novopharm oral-pharmaceut drug in the u.s. and close held novopharm will sell lyphom injectable-pharmaceut drug in canada.lyphom said the agreement put it into the hospit and retail oral-pharmaceut market, and will strengthen it posit in the canadian hospit market through it line of inject products. 
 after more than a decad of domin the market for the fastest and most power computers, cray research inc. of minneapoli now face a new domest challenger: eta system inc.in late december, eta, 89% own by control data corp., ship it first supercomputer, boast that it new line would run faster than the fastest cray computer. 
 todd said it appoint brown brother harriman & co. to investig alternatives, includ the sale of assets, "a combin of todd with anoth firm," and the renegoti or refinanc of portion of the compani debt.th compani also said the loss of the contract to build a new line of ddg-51 guid missil destroy may have "a materi advers effect" on the company. 
 moog inc. said it agre in principl to sell it carleton line of precis pneumat compon for $30 million to fr group plc of britain. 
 mr. gibbon couldn't be reach for comment.th new line is draw less-than-radi review in some quarters. 
 bargain hunter will face some dilemmas, however, and not all price are falling.som of the deepest cut are for older ibm clones, but some of those machin won't be power enough to run the new industry-standard softwar be plan for ibm new person service/2 line. 
 j. kendrick nobl jr., analyst with painewebb inc., note that map compani have becom more aggress in market their product as premium sinc the mid-1970s, when oil companies, one of the industri largest clients, stop give away road map atlas to attract customers.to enhanc it qualiti image, hammond also revamp it well-known trade line of world atlases, replac the old cloth cover book with a leather bound, gilded, thumb-index edition. 
 quaker oat co., in a move to reduc it swollen debt load, agre to sell sever recent acquir food line to kraft inc. for $235 million. 
 quaker oat co., in a move to reduc it swollen debt load, agre to sell sever recent acquir food line to kraft inc. for $235 million.th busi plan for sale, includ such line as seven sea salad dress and chiffon margarine, were all acquir last septemb when quaker paid $805 million for anderson, clayton & co., houston. 
 as previous reported, quaker want to sell everyth it acquir in that transact except the gain pet food unit.for glenview, ill.-bas kraft, the new line will boost it market share on sever supermarket shelv it alreadi dominates. 
 in 1986, quaker earn $88.1 million, includ $58 million from discontinu operations, on sale of $1.08 billion.th acquisit will allow kraft to use it exist sale forc and distributor for the new lines; it may also allow certain plant consolidations. 
 analyst estim that the non-food busi could fetch $200 million, thus further reduc quaker debt and posit it to pursu it state strategi of more acquisitions.mr. smithburg has said he is target groceri product with lead market share and toy line that would fit into quaker fisher-pric toy and children furnish unit. 
 moreover, as appl move it product line into the more expens and sophist market for engin workstations, profession publish system and serious busi manag applications, the compani retail dealer network will have to find way of sell comput system that are better suit to those more sophist markets."what was the top of our line of busi comput last week is now the bottom of our line," said john sculley, appl chairman and chief execut officer. 
 a week ago, ross said it expect to report a net loss of about $42 million for the fiscal year end feb. 1.the expect loss results, in larg part, from a fourth-period pre-tax charg of about $40 million to cover the close of 25 store and discontinu of some poor perform merchandis lines. 
 she is a spokeswoman for spring air mattresses, has done ad for mcdonald's, buf-puf and nestle's, and just sign a contract with licens corp. of america."right now we'r look at a dress line," say mr. manzella, who claim that other offer have come in from polaroid, kodak, saran wrap, chemic bank and hostess twinkies. 
 "we'r expect his addit to be veri posit in devis new strategies."found in 1964, the compani bought matchbox wheel toys, a 33-year-old line, in 1982. 
 univers matchbox has a need for my talent perhap more than mattel doe now."mr. forcelledo expect mr. kalinsk experi to move the compani into more toy for girls, from it current focus on die-cast toy and boy lines. 
 if the world-market price fall below that level (it is now seven cents), quota for import sugar are reduc until domest price reach 18 cent a pound.thi tactic mean there is no line item in the budget label "sugar giveaway," but that the averag famili of four must spend an extra $100 a year in higher price for such stapl as sugar, peanut butter, ketchup, salad dress and cereal. 
 price rang from $1,954 for a person comput base on intel 80286 microprocessor to $8,653 for one base on the 386 chip.bi announc the line onli two month after intern busi machin corp. unveil it own new famili of person computers, ncr is attempt to sway potenti ibm corpor custom to buy ncr machines, three of which compet direct with the ibm computers. 
 moreover, the high-perform oper system, call os/2, that can tap the full power of the new machin won't be avail until at least 1988.vernon yates, a vice presid of ncr and general manag of the person comput division, acknowledg that the compani is make the earli announc of the line in respons to ibm new machines. 
 he said the compani weaken financi condit would make it imposs for the concern to bear certain start-up and other cost without help from the navy.th contract is to build a new line of the navi ddg-51 class destroyer. 
 ncr corp., as expected, unveil here a line of person computers, includ one base on intel corp. power 80386 microprocessor. 
 and at american can in the earli 1980s, mr. tsai enthusiasm for financi servic found a recept audience.in particular, william woodside, then chairman of american can, embrac mr. tsai idea for push into insurance, mutual fund and other financi areas, while shed the compani traditional, slow-growth manufactur lines. 
 greyhound corp., look skyward for busi to replac the bus line it recent sold, agre to acquir carson piri scott & co. in-flight cater and airport-termin concess oper for $326 million.announc of the propos purchas of the dobb hous airport restaur and other food-servic line of chicago-bas carson piri came as specul increas that minneapoli investor irwin jacob was acquir greyhound shares. 
 "we'r go to sit and digest this one, and we'll look at it mayb a year from now," he said.th compani also remain interest in acquisit of consumer-product oper that would fit with it purex and dial line -- "anyth that not perish and can sit on a groceri shelf," he said. 
 quaker oat agre to sell sever recent acquir food line to kraft for $235 million. 
 zayr corp., whose earn and stock valu have been held down by it discount store operations, plan to sell a portion of it specialti store to the public.analyst said the move will rais cash for the framingham, mass.-bas retail and boost it stock valu by highlight the success of it off-pric specialti retail lines. 
 he usual doe what he set out to do," say stephen carnes, an analyst at piper jaffray & hopwood inc.on wednesday, beatric file with the secur and exchang commiss for an initi public offer of it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 but he said he is "concerned" that the food busi earnings, which lag the industri lead performers, could cool investor reaction to such a larg offering.beatric domest lines, includ hunt tomato product and wesson cook oils, had pre-tax profit of $448 million on sale of $4.82 billion in the fiscal year end feb. 28. 
 an industri sourc close to beatric say sever compani have express interest in the food businesses.that sourc said that such a sale, if it occurs, would follow the e-ii offer and the like disposit of the intern food lines. 
 a sourc close to burlington said that half of burlington divis have been break even or post loss and would be ripe candid for divestiture, while "the other half were cash cows."about 55% of burlington fiscal 1986 sale of $2.78 billion were in apparel fabrics, some line of which have been hit hard by import competition. 
 "guy run plant shouldn't be handicap against guy sell bonds," he said.in addition, mr. peltz said he and mr. may have been do more of the type of acquisit and corpor financ work that invest banker do than the work of line industri managers. 
 mr. jacob recent open a restaur overlook a boat dealership he own on the shore of lake minnetonka here.t at the snazzi new york-styl deli and grill, call sasha's, are care arranged: no matter which way custom turn, their gaze fall upon the dealership line of sleek wellcraft powerboats. 
 but the once-ubiquit preppi emblem is slowli reappear in store that shun the sportswear brand after sale plummet in 1984 and they got stuck with bloat inventories."a lot of exclus depart store drop most of the izod line when it becam overexpos and the qualiti slipped," say marvin lord, presid of the youthwear divis at crystal brand inc., the market of izod lacost apparel. 
 crystal brand recent consum research found most favor reaction to the alligator, but the compani has decid not to plaster it on everyth in sight.it especi scarc in the women line where fashion is far more import than a logo. 
 instead of the tradit sewn-on patch, it is screen-print and embroid on some shirts.in the boy line, a new sweater is emblazon with a fanci crest show the allig on a shield with french and american flags. 
 as reported, mattel said sale from oversea operations, under mr. amerman control, rose 47% in 1986.mr. kalinsk had head mattel domest operations, which the compani said suffer in 1986 becaus of lower demand for it master of the univers line of toys. 
 digit equip corp. and cray research inc., two lead maker of comput for scientist and researchers, are develop method of speed communic between their comput lines. 
 indeed, while cray spokesman wouldn't say whether such discuss are under way, he note that between 40% and 50% of cray supercomput are connect with intern busi machin corp. computers, "so it make an aw lot of sens for us to do everyth we can to improv the perform of that connection."between 10% and 20% of cray machin world-wid are link with digit vax line, cray spokesman estimated, with the rest receiv data from comput made by minneapolis-bas control data corp. 
 general motor corp., struggl with a lacklust car line and bloat costs, tap a new presid who has a proven record of cost cut and decad of experi build automobiles. 
 gm new presid is robert c. stempel, a 53-year-old with broad experi and a record of cost-cutting.stempel selection, end a tens contest among top officers, come as the auto maker struggl with a lacklust car line and bloat costs. 
 general motor corp. saturn corp. subsidiari is expect tomorrow to announc detail of a sale network compos of far fewer dealer than the auto maker other car lines. 
 general motor corp. saturn corp. subsidiari is expect tomorrow to announc detail of a sale network compos of far fewer dealer than the auto maker other car lines.a gm sourc said saturn initi expect to appoint onli about 100 dealer in major u.s. markets, compar with sever thousand dealer at each of gm five other car lines. 
 in 1986, the maker of elastom product and fiber materi earn $2.5 million, or 87 cent a share.th project improv reflect gain from an acquisition, reduc loss from unprofit lines, and open of a new elastom plant. 
 intern busi machin corp., in anoth move to regain ground on competitor such as digit equip corp., unveil four new model in it most power mid-rang comput line and it first mainfram comput price below $1 million. 
 "what we'v realli done . . . is enhanc our mid-range," said larri ford, an ibm vice president.mr. ford said that sinc last october, "we'v complet refresh the entir mainfram line." 
 mr. ford said that sinc last october, "we'v complet refresh the entir mainfram line."however, the machin aren't like to signific contribut to ibm sale until the fourth quarter; the new mainframe, the 3090 model 120, won't be avail until october, while the new machin in ibm 4381 medium-s line are schedul to be ship in the first quarter of 1988. 
 the four new 4381 comput are price between $225,000 and $890,000.the most potent of the four, the model 24, is at least six time more power than the entri level offer in the eight-model line. 
 under the plan, custom would get a current 4381 model and by the first quarter next year receiv accessori that convert the machin into the more power models.ibm offer a similar incent plan to boost current sale of an unavail product earlier this year, when it unveil two new model in it 3090, or sierra mainfram line. 
 mani of ibm 4381 customers, mid-siz busi or depart within larg companies, have reach the limit of the memori capac of the current models, but aren't readi to buy a mainfram yet, he added.th 4381 announc also put to rest specul that ibm would "quick obsolet the 4381 line" with the 9370 mid-siz line that was unveil last october, said david andrews, a consult with adm inc. of cheshire, conn. 
 the new mainfram "bring the 3090 down one more level," said ibm mr. ford.ibm also announc new softwar packages, includ the first softwar permit the develop of applic that will run across the so-cal system/370 line of computers.th system/370 line consist of the 9370 and 4381 mid-rang comput and the 3090 mainframes. 
 yesterday hardwar and softwar introduct are the most recent step in a flurri of move ibm has made sinc octob to fend off stiff competit from compani such as digit equipment, a major threat in the mid-rang market, and amdahl corp., which make machin that run softwar made for ibm mainframes.in addit to unveil the 9370 line, ibm has enhanc it lacklust workstation, the rt person computer, and cut price on it mainfram offer while introduc new ones.th compani also introduc a new line of person comput last month, in a bid to protect it posit in that market. 
 "no matter how you look at it, chrysler get a lot of valu for what it is paying," said scott merlis, an analyst with morgan stanley & co. "chrysler bring a lot of valu to amc, amc bring a lot of valu to chrysler."specifically, chrysler is expect to benefit great from amc popular jeep line -- it onli consist profit product -- and amc state-of-the-art assembl facil in bramlea, ontario. 
 beatric cos. said it file with the secur and exchang commiss for an initi public offer for it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 e-ii busi will includ stiffel lamps, samsonit luggag and the culligan water soften business.it food line will includ martha white bake mixes, lowrey meat snack and a private-label pizza business. 
 beatric food core includ swift meats, hunt tomato product and wesson cook oil.th e-ii offer continu beatric strategi of shed it non-food lines. 
 alfin inc., which has come under govern attack for anti-ag claim about it wrinkl creams, said it will report "signific losses, particular in the current fiscal quarter."th cosmet maker ad that it retain bear, stearn & co. to studi "financi alternatives," includ the sale of the skin-car line. 
 allis-chalm corp. said it receiv a $150 million propos for certain of it busi from chicago-bas ca ltd.the mine and miner process equip concern said ca has offer to buy allis-chalm solid process equip busi -- which also includ it energi and miner system line -- the stephens-adamson business, industri pump busi and power generat system business. 
 beatric cos. plan an initi public offer for it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 vast stretch of previous uninhabit wilder in such state as mato grosso, and even amazon, have been transform into some of the most product farm in the world.and the industri giant of sao paulo today success compet on an intern level and occasion pioneer advanc equipment, such as embraer success airline-manufactur line. 
 compani that sell car in the u.s. are requir by feder law to phase in passive-restraint system such as automat seat belt or airbags.ford didn't specifi which car line might get the safeti equipment, which protect passeng against injuri in head-on collisions, but said they would be ad to car with driver-sid air bags. 
 driver-sid air bag current are avail on four-door ford tempo and mercuri topaz models, as well as on some european import cars.robert h. munson, ford director of automot safety, said the passeng air bag will be offer on "certain car lines, assum the engin and test now under way demonstr that a safe, reliabl and effect system is practic and that an adequ suppli of such system is then available." 
 donald d. kingsborough, chairman and chief execut officer, said the drop in fourth-quart earn result from heavi invest in new product intend to diversifi operations.th compani soon will begin ship a line of school accessories, includ an answer machin for use in school locker -- a devic that is trigger to record messag by a whistle-lik activator. 
 the comput system, which isn't expect to be avail until the fourth quarter this year, will have a base price of $27,495.system 1300, as the new product is called, fill a gap in the compani line of multius comput system for business. 
 graphic packag corp., paoli, pa., began trade under the symbol gpak.th compani manufactur a divers line of flexibl packag product for various industries. 
 year-ago net includ a $4.2 million charg in connect with the close of a baby-food plant in oakland, calif.th compani said sale improv as a result of the widespread accept of a new line of babi food introduc in october. 
 he note that it offer smithklin an opportun to increas it share of the inject antibiot market and to increas tagamet use among hospit patients.ronald nordmann of painewebb inc. said the arrang will allow smithklin to boost sale of some of it antibiot that aren't sell well by "ti them into a program that promot a specif (product) line." 
 meanwhile, stapl competitor aren't stand still.discount warehous chain like price co. and costco wholesal corp., which sell a varieti of product and report receiv almost 10% of their revenu from sale of offic products, plan to expand office-suppli line. 
 the price of the contract wasn't disclosed, but galoob said it made an advanc payment and also will pay royalties.galoob said it will market a line of action figures, playsets, electron hand-held game and toy weapon base on the new program, which will begin oct. 3. 
 fortun friday report a first-quart net loss of $1.5 million, compar with a $345,000 profit a year earlier, on a 32% drop in revenu to $7.3 million.sci, an electron manufacturer, has said the acquisit of fortun microcomput busi will strengthen it own line of microcomput products. 
 "i'm surpris that would happen.i thought the main line (business) was pretti solid," said bert metter, who, until late april, was chairman and chief execut offic of thompson j. walter thompson usa unit. 
 "if i come into (a televis station) in los angel with a great show, they say, thank you veri much, goodbye,'" say andrew heyward, a former hanna barbera writer and stori editor who is now presid and major sharehold of dic enterprises."but if we go in and say, hey, we'v got a hot toy line come out from mattel, and normal they spend $7 million in your market on spot advertising, that a differ story." 
 year-earli net includ a gain of about $8.6 million from sale of a division.burlington also note gain in some industri and home-furnish lines. 
 sell scent get tougher, prompt a fragrance-industri shakeup.disappoint profit put mani fragranc line on the block, includ some own by drug companies. 
 the buyers: cosmet and fragranc companies.revlon group inc. purchas the dian von furstenberg fragranc from beecham group plc, while sanofi inc. buy distribut right to the nina ricci line from american cyanamid co. 
 boy and date came in sixth.leggi looks: thigh-high skirt sell well in design and junior lines. 
 a sale of the seven consum brand would take away valuabl robin assets.robin consum product unit, which compris the seven brand and a line of pet-car products, had oper profit of $52.7 million on sale of $267 million in 1986. 
 the latest announc includ some plant that just last month were temporarili shut down and then restarted.th car line affect by the new action includ the pontiac 6000 and the buick century. 
 benihana nation corp. said it has retain kidder, peabodi & co. to advis the compani on a sale, joint ventur or licens arrang of it frozen food division.th restaur and frozen food concern said a sale or other disposit of it two frozen food line would permit it to direct financi resourc to the develop of it restaur business. 
 low ingredi costs, heavi promot of new product and aggress market of establish line such as cereal and frozen food help profits. 
 ibm and appl are make big cut in the number of dealer who will be permit to carri their new products, but are tri to tie up more of the remain dealer shelf space and more of their salesmen "mind space" -- as one dealer put it.a a result, dealer will general becom more specialized, drop some manufactur product so they can concentr on a few main line and possibl focus on fewer type of customers. 
 those drawback like mean that as mani as a third of ibm current dealer will either decid not to carri the new product or won't qualify.but dealer say they like ibm move to use the new comput line to lock in big-busi customers, and those dealer who remain will have pledg allegi to big blue. 
 comput factori has cut about a third of the vendor it use to carry.th computerland corp. store in st. cloud, minn., chose not to renew it sale agreement with appl and may drop some printer line so it can concentr on ibm new printer line; mr. deboer of computerland predict it ibm sale will increas 15%. 
 "it was alreadi happening, but it was happen slowly."h say that not onli will dealer focus on fewer line of equipment, but that dealer will focus more on market nich -- concentr on busi of a certain size or on specif industries, such as bank or insurance. 
 the non-food busi had sale of $1.2 billion in the year end feb. 28, 1987, repres about 13% of beatric total.mr. kelli plan to assum control of the non-food company, the sourc said, gradual shed some line and perhap ad other in build an independ chicago-bas conglomerate. 
 upriver, men demonstr the busi end of a blowgun.here, at the ngiu kee depart store, cosmetologist demonstr the new bio line of natural-ingredi makeup put out by kenebo, the japanes cosmet firm. 
 mr. white point out that in fiscal 1985, sale of comput termin account for 96% of wyse business.aft acquir amdek corp., a distributor of electron products, in januari 1986, and after introduc it own line of person computers, the sale mix shift considerably. 
 ici america inc. announc a $50 million expans of it polyester-film plant in hopewell, va.th expans involv a new thick-film line that is slate to begin product in 1989 and increas plant capac 20%. 
 the japanese, launch their long-await effort to crack the u.s. supercomput market, introduc a three-machin line and vow to compet head-on with u.s. rivals. 
 energi convers devic inc. said it optic memory-storag technolog is be use by intern busi machin corp. in a new line of person computers. 
 the consum product and financi servic busi had lower oper earnings, greyhound said, though transport manufactur earn rose 7%.the compani said it line of household laundri product hadn't return to the profit level that prevail befor new-product spend by competitor was increas in mid 1986. 
 gm has design the program to bring custom into chevrolet showrooms, as buyer must sit insid a vehicl with a paper "key" from the procter & gambl product to see if they'v won.also includ in this joint promot is a new line of chevrolet pickup trucks. 
 gm other divis cut financ rate for 36-month and 48-month loan contracts.in addition, rebat for buick and oldsmobil model now are base on specif car line rather than on the type and number of option order with the car. 
 soon, gm will know whether it has been play leapfrog -- or just a desper game of follow-the-leader.six year and some $5 billion later, the no. 1 auto maker is prepar to introduc what could be it most import car line ever, now code-nam "gm-10." 
 and taurus and sabl have driven triumphant into the mid-siz market.at the same time, gm line of older, rear-wheel-dr mid-siz cars, such as the current regal and pontiac grand prix, is schedul for retirement. 
 gm also is count on gm-10 to help reduc it use of high-cost, in-hous part suppliers.for william j. clark, that meant tell former colleagu at a warren, mich., plant that they couldn't suppli gm-10 with a steering-system part as they have done with other gm lines. 
 separately, ford said it australian unit and nissan australian unit are discuss the possibl of joint sell certain model in australia.th discuss are a respons to the australian govern plan to limit the number of car line produc in that country. 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday, minnetonka share jump $3 to close at $29.375.the line plan for sale are softsoap liquid soap, villag bath soap and shampoo and sesam street bubbl bath and shampoo.jerom jenko, minnetonka vice presid and general counsel, estim total sale for the three line at more than $50 million last year. 
 jerom jenko, minnetonka vice presid and general counsel, estim total sale for the three line at more than $50 million last year.mr. jenko said the plan sale is part of a strategi to focus on the compani higher-margin lines, which includ obsess perfum and cologn and other calvin klein fragrances.also, minnetonka said it sign an agreement in principl to market calvin klein industri inc. line of women small leather accessori world-wid under the calvin klein trademark. 
 "restaur even did better on tomato soup than homemad or store-bought, which caus a lot of constern around here," say anthoni adams, campbel director of market research.so doe campbel regret name a new line of soup home cookin'? 
 reebok intern ltd. chairman paul fireman predict the canton, mass., concern would becom the lead maker of basketbal shoe by year end.reebok meteor rise was base on it aerobic-sho line; it ad basketbal sneaker last year. 
 in a speech in new york, compaq presid rod canion said "compaq intend to continu . . . provid industri standard" person computers.earli this month ibm introduc a new line of person comput that deviat in certain way from the standard it set with it ibm pc in 1981 -- the standard on which compaq base the $1.8 billion in comput it has sold sinc it start-up in 1983. 
 michael s. swavely, compaq vice president, marketing, said compaq would have "at least one major new product announc this year," fit the strategi outlin in mr. canion speech.but mr. swave wouldn't rule out the possibl of compaq produc a comput compat with the new ibm line.h said it was "conceivable" that compaq might eventu produc two line of comput base on the differ standards. 
 wilson has long had a reput for innovation, new product and smart marketing.even through the difficult time sinc it was spun off by ltv corp. in 1981, the compani maintain a research program that help develop it deli line and new technolog for tender fresh pork for it tendercut brand. 
 in the over-the-count market, sun microsystem rose 1 3/4 to 34 1/8, microsoft gain 7 1/4 to 106 1/4, lotus develop advanc 2 1/2 to 31 and apollo comput ad 2 to 20 1/8.appl computer, which plan to creat an independ softwar compani to develop and publish softwar for two of it comput lines, move up 2 to 77 in otc trade as volum top 1.4 million shares. 
 the need for regulatori approv and complex comput system keep mani small insur out of the variable-lif market.briefs: eldergames, a new line of game design for patient suffer memori loss, includ eldertrivia and memori jogger flashcards. . . . 
 prab robot inc. said westinghous electr corp. unim inc. unit agre in principl to licens prab to make, sell and servic unim line of hydraul unim industri robot in north and south america. 
 when the novel came on the market in late 1985, at least five hous want it.gerald howard, who run penguin contemporari american fiction line, say he took care of the competit by "read it veri quick and go nut for it." 
 mr. howard report that allianc entertain has paid a $10,000 option toward a $200,000 purchas if it like the script treatment.th caf line is the eight-year-old reprint hous for such sturdi modern master as donald barthelme, william kennedi and lauri colwin. 
 in the econom of modern mass-market paperback publishing, a serious literari novel that sell steadili but modest is near imposs to keep in print.nowadays, it is an outfit like caf, as well as random hous vintag line and a clutch of small presses, that offer the possibl of a long life for much serious fiction. 
 as with ibm, other comput concern report sharpli stronger march sales.th surg was part attribut to custom who had been hold back to evalu new model and enhanc in ibm sierra mainfram line. 
 american telephon & telegraph co. cut price 5% to 38% on it slow-sel person computers, reflect increas price competit in the wake of the new pc famili unveil earlier this month by intern busi machin corp.th biggest cut were made in the at&t pc 6300 plus line; the price of an entri model with a singl floppi disk drive fell 38% to $1,590, and the price of the top-of-the-lin model with a "hard" disk store the equival of 20,000 page of data was cut 29% to $3,065. 
 "i want to be in a situat where i can see some posit result veri quickly."at digital, the 51-year-old mr. kramer is best known as the product manag who built the compani line of pdp scientif comput into a $300 million busi by 1978. 
 mr. rattigan, 49 year old, was wide view as the architect of a sever cost-cut campaign that was larg respons for the return to profitability.whil sale gain have trail the increas in profit, the compani has been bet that it expand line of amiga person comput will spur revenu growth. 
 it was the first vaccin produc by gene-spl to gain fda market clearance.biocin was form to develop and put on the market a line of genet engin vaccin against a varieti of infecti diseas includ aids, oral, genit herpes, malaria and sever strain of hepatitis. 
 the slower sale growth for person comput also trigger a shakeout among personal-comput dealer that thin their rank by more than a third.and, as if that weren't enough, last year personal-comput price were driven down by the mani clone of ibm standard-set pc line of computers. 
 revenu fell 1.1% to $315.2 million from $318.8 million becaus of "the rapid deterior in sale of our older" comput products, said edson d. decastro, president.revenu from the mv line of super-minicomput grew, he said, and mani custom are inquir about computers, although they haven't yet place orders. 
 mr. henson said "our better-than-expect earn can be attribut to a surg in order late in the quarter," and cost controls.in february, he warn analyst to expect flat result becaus custom were hold off purchas while wait for a new line of machin to becom available. 
 stratus make "fault tolerant" comput that can handl a constant stream of task without break down.it said that product in a new line of comput it introduc feb. 2 account for 75% of it first-quart revenue. 
 comput sale account for rough 25% of the compani sales, accord to analysts.unit sale for the compani line of comput compat with intern busi machin corp. pc increas 62% in the quarter.som analyst had suggest that comput sale might be upset by the introduct of a new line of person comput from ibm, expect throughout the quarter. 
 her respons includ order supplies, type sale reports, coordin travel arrang and make morn coffee.sh also repres a small peripher line she'd learn about while clean out the offic files. 
 sinc no one els was interest in handl the project, the district manag let her take it on in addit to her other responsibilities.when she succeed with that line, she took on sever other small products. 
 merlin ii, the larger of the new merlin systems, can accommod as mani as 32 line and 72 phones.th new merlin, which essenti replac the exist merlin line, has more featur such as track length and durat of call by phone, than the spirit system, at&t said.smal model of both line will be avail by may, with larger model avail in the third quarter. 
 digit equip corp. pull the plug on it slow-sel rainbow line of person computers. 
 he ad that "this year we'r go to make sure the revenu (growth) is real, and then let the expens follow."in particular, xerox is benefit from an aggressive, two-year program of cost-cut in it office-equip lines. 
 the rebound is most evid in xerox first-quart earn from continu operations, which rose 32% to $135 million, or $1.25 a share, compar with $102 million, or 93 cent a share, a year ago.pre-tax profit from xerox photocopi and computer-system line was doubl that of the year-earli period. 
 thoma industri inc. said it has sign an agreement with schreder light of brussels, belgium, to make and market schreder line of tunnel light product in the u.s. and canada, except quebec. 
 thomas, which make a broad rang of light products, said it emco light divis in milan, ill., will make and market the schreder products.schred make tunnel light from 18 factori world-wid and also make a broad line of outdoor light products. 
 in the year-earli quarter, the oil and gas concern had net incom of $22.1 million, or 45 cent a share, on sale of $718.9 million.kerr-mcge said all it line were profit in the 1987 quarter except for it contract drill and uranium operations, which incur "small losses." 
 the execut said inventori were reduc 34% dure the quarter to $59 million from $79 million, and that short-term bank debt was reduc 57% to $58 million from $91 million.in explain the lower profit margins, they cite a higher concentr of season outdoor product sales, which carri lower margin than the remaind of coleco line, and sale of cabbag patch kid doll at lower margins, part becaus of special first-quart sale incentives. 
 first-quart oper profit, befor special gains, reach a record $65 million, up 68% from $38.8 million a year earlier.transamerica attribut the improv to signific higher earn across a broad line of it businesses. 
 until recently, rorer was a lacklust compani whose lead over-the-count brand, maalox antacid, was lose market share.but under it new chairman and chief execut officer, robert e. cawthorn, the compani has been push to becom a top drug maker by narrow it focus and search for a major acquisit with strong cash flow and a compat line of prescription-drug products. 
 ronald m. nordmann, a drug analyst at painewebber, said robin would constitut "a veri good catch" for rorer, provid the dalkon shield liabil could be cap at a "reasonable" level.bi acquir robins, rorer could build it prescription- and over-the-count drug lines, he said. 
 philip morri said the market share of it u.s. tobacco unit increas compar with a year ago, although cigarett unit volum fell for both the industri and philip morri u.s.a.th compani said lower retail price boost sale for general food maxwel hous coffe line, while strong gain also were achiev for loui rich turkey products. 
 the maker of air-condit and heat equip expect earn for the second quarter -- historically, it best period of the year -- to exceed year-earli net incom of $5.3 million, or 61 cent a share, jame t. dresher, vice chairman, said.som of the gain will come from sale of a new line of rooftop air condition suit for fast-food restaur and strip shop centers, mr. dresher said in an interview. 
 as reported, avon has agre in principl to acquir giorgio inc., a bever hills, calif.-bas fragranc maker, for $185 million, and there are plan for other acquisit soon, he said.specifically, mr. waldron express a strong interest in the elizabeth arden line that the indianapoli pharmaceut concern eli lilli & co. has said it is selling. 
 appl comput profit rose an unexpect 6.5% in it latest quarter, surpris even the company.sal surg 41%, led by continu strength in the macintosh comput line. 
 "the obvious surpris is how well our sale are doing," said robert saltmarsh, appl treasurer, who ad that their sale growth "is realli broad based."appl has enjoy continu strong sale of it macintosh line of person comput to the import busi market. 
 in addition, mr. saltmarsh said, the compani 10-year-old appl ii product line, which cater to home and educ markets, continu to sell well.ship of the newest machin in the line, the appl ii-g introduc last fall, have pick up. 
 the machin "are crucial for prime.they had a need to expand their line," said richard mikita, an analyst with market research intern data corp., framingham, mass. 
 separately, wang introduc sever new product that allow pictur and imag to be store on optic disk and then shown on special comput screens.th system work with wang current line of computers, and wang offici predict they may sell as much as $100 million of the system in fiscal 1988. 
 comput associ has grown rapid by focus on a part of the softwar market call system utilities, which help data process center manag their oper more efficiently.it has made a seri of acquisit to broaden it line of busi software, includ the purchas of softwar intern corp. and integr softwar system corp. last december. 
 the big piec left are financi services, auto parts, defens and aerospace, industri and forest products, communications, and hotels.mr. kelli envis a manufactur acquisit that would, for example, add to the auto-part line. 
 basic are no secret to merchandisers.for mani year major retail identifi basic item in all stapl line and made certain they were "alway available." 
 for years, rorer group inc. was regard as a dull laggard of the drug industry.it had a tini research budget and a weak prescription-drug line. 
 despit such ambiti moves, mr. cawthorn acknowledg that a lot more will be need to catapult rorer into a leadership position.ideally, he say he would like to buy a compani with "strong cash flow" and a compat line of prescription-drug products. 
 tandi corp. comput sale weren't hurt in it third quarter end march 31 by the expect that intern busi machin corp. would announc a new line of person computers, tandi chairman, john roach, said. 
 overal comput sale in the consum electron concern fiscal third quarter rose 16%, he said.both percentag figur includ tandi line of comput that aren't ibm-compatible, as well as those that are. 
 the increas was primarili fuel by ibm larg mainfram computers, analyst said.sal sputter earlier in the quarter, larg becaus custom were scrutin ibm januari introduct of two new model and price cut in it so-cal sierra mainfram line. "(we) began to gain momentum and had an excel march," an ibm spokesman said. 
 "that when they'll be hit on all eight cylinders," montgomeri mr. jone said.in july, the compani is expect to start deliv it new midrang computers; ibm sale of it new person comput line, unveil earlier this month, also will be well under way and the compani expens should be lower. 
 "profit margin are still under pressur and price are still under pressur in the comput industri and aren't like to let up."ibm profit margin declin almost three percentag point in the quarter, reflect price cut in the person comput line "and some other products," the ibm spokesman said. 
 at $165 an ounce, "clear (giorgio) reach a veri carriag trade business."h said avon will keep giorgio and it tradit busi separ and that avon repres won't sell the giorgio line. 
 a spokesman said the plan transact doesn't forestal other acquisit by avon for it beauti or health care operations.for one thing, he said, the compani continu to be "veri interested" in the elizabeth arden line that eli lilli & co., indianapolis, has said it want to sell. 
 "still, with the introduct of the new ibm machin it an import time for compaq and it would be better to have him than not," mr. galvin added.intern busi machin corp. last week introduc a new line of person comput that will compet with compaq line, which has grown from the origin portabl to includ a number of desktop models. 
 in it complaint file in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york, american natur beverag corp., maker of soho natur soda, claim anheuser-busch packag for zeltzer seltzer is "confus similar" to that for soho natural.clos held american natur said it has use it current packag design for soho natur sinc 1982 and sell the fruit-flavor line of soda in 33 states. 
 robert h. smith, national-oilwel chairman, said, "bi combin the strength of two of the lead compani in the field, we are form an entiti which can surviv under current depress industri conditions."th compani make and sell a complet line of drill and product equipment. 
 mr. frain, a market specialist, was chosen in late januari to be the first presid and chief execut offic of alfr dunhil of london inc., the u.s. arm of dunhil holdings.h say the compani plan to expand beyond it tradit line of veri expens smoker products, into veri expens "serious menswear." 
 we mix tobacco for individu customers."and so the line of suit dunhil plan to launch will have a "bottom price point" of $750.most of the line, which will emphas custom fit and hand tailoring, will hover around the $2,000 mark, accord to mr. frain. 
 menswear, which in the u.s. now includ fine tailor products, make up 30% of sales.mr. frain say he will focus in the u.s. on retail and on more complet menswear lines. 
 "the averag person isn't interested."nor doe mr. farley want viewer to rememb him display the compani latest line of underwear. 
 the compani said it purchas of 4.2 million of it share dure 1986 fuel a 15% rise in earn per share.despit sale increas in electronics, major applianc and other lines, raytheon report lower sale in energi servic and aircraft products. 
 onc sleepi glenmor is take lot of gambl these days.th "light of day" project was mere the start of a major reposit campaign to liven up it old-fashion mr. boston line of liqueur and other distil spirits. 
 sale for the quarter exceed $200 million, he said.th earn and sale figures, both better than analyst expected, indic that compaq sale dure the quarter weren't hurt signific by the prospect of a new line of comput that intern busi machin corp. was expect to introduc at the end of the period. 
 she ad 1980s sunglasses, patch and labeling, and had the compani sponsor a women surf cup.mrs. gibson also help origin limit pseudo-italian forenza line and has introduc new label like outback red, an australian safari look, and axcess accessories. 
 but as mrs. gibson experi with more upscal and expens merchandise, and as the store target popul ages, analyst say she will have to keep a care eye on the ident of both store and merchandise.certain not all of her move score; accord to one analyst, the album by kenzo -- a line of recent year -- has been vast scale back becaus it "didn't fit." 
 when she surfaces, she is friend but blunt."you know i alway tell the truth," she warn one design who ask what she thought of the line of blue jean and sweatshirt he'd just love presented. 
 varian associ inc. said it receiv a three-year contract for more than $30 million from toshiba corp.varian will suppli x-ray tube for the tokyo compani line of computer tomographi scanners. 
 the maker of disk drive control wouldn't elabor on the size of the expect loss, but a spokesman said the compani doesn't expect to have ani futur busi with ibm.th part the compani use to suppli to ibm are for machin that are be phase out in connect with the big comput maker recent introduc line of person computers. 
 carlo de benedetti, chairman of ing. c. olivetti & co., announc plan to launch a new line of olivetti person comput and minicomput in june and to set up an industri hold compani in spain. 
 in over-the-count trading, share of clone-mak wyse technolog inc. also rose, and appl comput inc. stock was up sharply."aft all the dust settl from the big announcement, the long wait begins," said appl chairman john sculley, contend that appl is way ahead of ibm. similarly, compaq presid rod canion said he doesn't see ani need for price cut or product chang and that ibm new line "doesn't offer ani major new advantag and isn't veri aggress from a price standpoint." 
 but in move against such clone as epson, ibm may be appli more immedi pressur through it new, tighter approach to pc dealers.big blue is restrict the number of dealer -- now total 2,300 for the old line -- that will be author to sell the newest and highest-pr product by creat a special class of retailer. 
 moreover, the dealer must meet certain sale quotas, carri other design ibm products, report sale to ibm month and bolster custom support.such requir may forc some dealer to drop other brand to spend more time and resourc on the ibm line. 
 "anyon who carri four or five (brands) will have to reevalu it," said bert helfinstein, chairman of entr comput center inc. ad jim levinson, who own three computerland store in cincinnati: "the kind of thing (ibm) is ask for are veri money-intens . . . it go to make us rethink our busi totally."th low end of the ibm line consist of two model that ibm said are as much as 2 1/2 time faster than the exist pc xt, have more memori and have better graphics, and are lower priced. 
 ibm also announc dozen of other hardwar and softwar product includ five printers, computer-network programs, and a desktop-publish system price at $8,553, which some analyst saw as aggress priced.to clear store shelv for the new products, ibm made these price reductions: a 35% cut to $1,395 for a model of the pc xt and a 32% cut to $1,545 for another; a 15% cut to $1,695 for the pc convert "laptop"; a 17% cut to $2,810 for anoth xt model; a 13% cut to $4,595 for two pc at versions; 9.3% cut to $6,810 for two other ats, and cut of 4% to 10% for four model of ibm slow-sel 3270 pc line. 
 "sun workstat typic are sold in a configur of five or eight workstations, while a macintosh ii will be more of a stand-alon workstation," he said.a spokesman for apollo comput said that the compani doesn't have ani workstat direct compet with the low end of sun line, and that it unit remain price competit against sun more power models. 
 at dec. 31 fortun cash asset total $20.5 million and it sharehold equiti was $51 million.sci, an electron manufacturer, said the acquisit of fortun microcomput busi would strengthen it own line of microcomput products. 
 it next new, high-volum car, the mid-siz gm10 model, won't debut until this fall, and then onli initi in one version at one division.until then, the compani has to reli on it exist lines, which haven't been sell well, despit cash rebates, option packag rebat and low-interest financ rate that current cover more than half it cars. 
 ibm unveil it new line of person computers, mark a new era of competit in the market. 
 and while mr. herbert say he expect the compani to grow internally, he say he also expect it to "be aggress look for acquisit that will dramat expand the business."whil the unit has alway look for acquistions, he says, now it like will be look more broad than just at line that supplement minut maid chill or frozen business. 
 decis percol to the top for even minor entertain expenses.until recently, vice chairman j. phillip samper, who head photograph and inform products, could be call upon to make a decis on ani one of 50,000 products. (now business-unit manag are respons for their own lines.) 
 in recent quarter feder has focus on new chicken product that are gear to current consum trend and also command higher prices.item like it time trimmer line of filleted, quick-to-prepar chicken part have been pay off. 
 lately, consult have had a field day ridicul unwieldi new corpor name like allegi and trinova.but the most critic name seem to be honda motor co. acura car line. 
 geo.a. hormel & co. test top shelf, a line of entre such as boneless beef rib that can be heat in two minutes. 
 carson piri scott & co. in chicago spin off three concepts: corpor level for executives, arcadia for gift and cards, and inpuls for knitwear.to control select and display, liz claiborn inc. plan it own store with a new line of cloth in late 1987 or earli 1988. 
 monarch avalon inc. said earn for the year end april 30 won't be aid by a new line of toy becaus it won't begin sell the toy until may.in an earlier edition, a. eric dott, president, said the compani would begin sell the line in april. 
 whi creat someth new?"whil moline, ill.-bas deer will still be abl to market it smaller line of diesel engin through detroit diesel expans distribut network, it must now look for a way to develop a new engin for the 1990s, analyst said. 
 after month of angst in the comput industri and seem endless rumors, intern busi machin corp. final will introduc it new line of person comput on thursday. 
 yet some student of histori may recal that appl ran a smug ad in 1981 welcom ibm to the pc market -- then watch as ibm market share quick dwarf apple's.in ani case, competitor seem readi to final face realiti and either take their lump or perhap profit from ani weak in the ibm line. 
 scime also said that it and certain of it stockhold have grant bristol-my option to buy more than 50% of all author share at $29.25 a share.scimed, which designs, make and market dispos medic product use to treat cardiovascular disease, recent introduc a line of coronari balloon angioplasti cathet to widen obstruct coronari arteries, facilit blood flow. 
 for market of new products, this lack of gusto mean trouble.but langer suggest that habit shopper may be more will to tri new product if they are line extens with familiar brand names. 
 new busi that offici expect to contribut to futur sale and profit includ waste-to-energi systems, hazardous- and toxic-wast cleanups, busi communications, space commerci and electron secur system for nuclear plants.thes line current have sale of about $50 million and are expect to contribut $300 million to $500 million in sale by 1989. 
 xerox corp., too, has been use product semant increas in it design strategy, a move it claim has result in less train for user and fewer servic call to remedi simpl problems.recently, the compani introduc a line of copier that call to mind typic offic desks, with flat surfac for paperwork on top and storag space and access door below. 
 ibm will unveil it new line of person comput thursday, end month of speculation. 
 a 60-day to 65-day suppli is consid normal.th compani has also suffer declin sale and high inventori in some of it truck lines, mean the strike shouldn't have a signific financi effect unless it last a long time, analyst said. 
 "a strike would probabl help," said philip k. frick of goldman, sach & co.in addition, most of the truck line produc in pontiac are also made at other plants. 
 other analyst believ that bull see the partnership as a way to broaden it intern market, while nec view it as a way to expand technolog exports.nec produc mani part in honeywel current comput line. 
 mr. fireman said that he will focus his own effort on strateg planning, acquisit and overse operations.canton, mass.-bas reebok has grown rapidly, with sale tripl last year to $919.4 million, on the strength of it stylish aerob shoe follow by other athlet shoe lines. 
 monarch avalon inc. expect fiscal 1987 earn to match last year $154,000, or eight cent a share, a. eric dott, president, said.mr. dott cite strong fourth-quart sale from sever new board game and a new line of toys. 
 for the first nine months, mattel net incom fell 75% to $18.6 million, or 31 cent a share, from $73.4 million, or $1.37 a share, a year earlier.harold vogel, a merril lynch & co. analyst, said mattel major problem is that unsold retail inventori of it "master of the universe" line of toy are still veri large. 
 sever new toy that were consid possibl hit for this year have fail to live up to expectations.coleco rambo, pawtucket, r.i.-bas hasbro inc. inhumanoids, and beverly, mass.-bas kenner parker toy inc. centurions, all action-figur line for boys, haven't sold well. 
 hasbro transform action figures, which had sale of $335 million last year, will declin to about $195 million in 1986, the compani said.and hawthorne, calif.-bas mattel inc. said that sale of it master of the univers charact will declin "significantly" from 1985 sale of about $400 million for the line. 
 but 1987 look brighter for the industry.analyst and toy buyer said the major compani will have better line of action figur and doll than they did this year. 
 coleco will introduc miniatur doll with magnet on their feet, which are part of a u.s. space forc and use equip with littl motor to lift cargo and other items.toy buyer and analyst said extens of sever lines, such as hasbro rock star jem, also may be winners. 
 his fashion company, fiorucci s.p.a., of which he is one-third owner, expect pre-tax profit this year of $3 million on sale of $80 million, up from profit of about $800,000 on sale of $60 million last year.mr. fiorucci rework fashion -- the current men line, classic nouveau, invok the 1940s -- and mass item like blue jean are a big hit in france, west germani and south america. 
 though fiorucci make main clothes, it has design such thing as wall clock and tableware.at the compani milan headquarters, the team of 16 design is work on a line that includ durabl and expensive-look leather jacket as well as chunki sweater and more blue jeans. 
 term of the transact with henkel, which is expect to close earli next year, weren't disclosed.th nopco line has annual sale of about $160 million. 
 the new divis will be call the busi product & system group.earn from xerox troubl office-equip lines, which also includ printer and computers, have declin in each of the first three quarter this year. 
 the relianc acquisit brought exxon a number of problem relat to relianc feder pacif electr co. unit.problem with the design of a line of feder pacif circuit breaker led to a cost recall. 
 ply-gem industri inc. said it agre to acquir close held great lake window corp., toledo, ohio, for $18 million.th purchase, which will add to ply-gem line of specialti home-improv products, is expect to close befor year end. 
 mr. hassenfeld said the compani transform action toy group would be the largest categori contribut to 1986 results.hasbro reiter that it expect sale of the line to fall; mr. hassenfeld estim the sale would fall to $195 million this year from $335 million last year. 
 mr. scharffenberg say mr. meenaghan "has a good, thorough insur background."mr. meenaghan say home will "pursu growth aggressively" in some special lines, but the growth will be orderly. 
 in composit trade on the new york stock exchang yesterday, first interst close at $54.25 a share, down 25 cents; bankamerica close at $14.625 a share, unchanged.separately, bankamerica agre as part of a restructur to sell bank of america consum trust line to the well fargo bank unit of well fargo & co., anoth san francisco bank concern, for $100 million. 
 after some debate, ansel decid to relaunch lifestyl instead of introduc a new brand.but it still plan to add new product to the line, and it is still consid chang the name to partners. 
 through qo chemicals, pentech produc certain specialti chemic that are use to make furfuryl alcohol and other product use in foundri resins, plastics, flame retard build materials, oil refin and urethan systems.great lake said qo specialti chemic line fit well into sever market it alreadi serv and enhanc it intern presence. 
 hasbro inc. say tonka corp. ran off with it new toy.hasbro accus tonka of misappropri inform about a "secret" concept for a toy line -- industri rumor are that it involv a holograph techniqu -- that hasbro plan to introduc in februari at the big annual toy fair in new york. 
 "their claim are total without merit," say stephen g. shank, tonka chief execut offic and president."it appear that hasbro is just concern that we have a line into the market befor them." 
 but tonka execut recent told industri analyst that it plan to introduc a toy next year that will featur holograph technology, which use laser light to produc three-dimension images.among hasbro current top seller are it g.i. joe and transform lines; tonka has score big sale recent with it pound puppi line. 
 the toy fair is consid a crucial launch pad for new toy and game for the $12 billion industry.th suit assert that "exclus for a concept at the toy fair can mean the differ between success and failur of an entir toy line." 
 that market is in disord as the comput industri undergo a long-predict consolidation.thi year sever big compani gave up on be independ supplier of a broad line of comput systems: control data corp. is now concentr on certain niches; sperri corp. join with burrough corp. to form unisi corp., and honeywel inc. has decid to merg it comput oper with those of two big oversea comput makers. 
 this year sever big compani gave up on be independ supplier of a broad line of comput systems: control data corp. is now concentr on certain niches; sperri corp. join with burrough corp. to form unisi corp., and honeywel inc. has decid to merg it comput oper with those of two big oversea comput makers.today, data general execut say, their compani is in a select group that includ ibm, digit and hewlett-packard inc. as maker of a broad line of comput product for offic and factories. 
 for example, general electr co. recent agre to joint sell a factory-autom system ge develop at it schenectady, n.y., turbin facility.whil data general continu to make a broad line of comput and software, it is focus on fewer markets. 
 ge is the 10th largest u.s. industri company, and it $39.5 billion stock market valu trail onli intern busi machin and exxon.also, in an era that valu stand-alon busi and discount conglomerates, ge has 14 major lines. 
 under the agreement, appl can't challeng franklin in court again until late next year.currently, franklin sell a line of appl iie- and iic-compat machin that it say don't violat appl patents. 
 the compani said it acquir 15 product with annual sale total less than $10 million and will market them in west germany.among them are a line of topic antirheumatics, which are product to eas arthritis-lik pain, and a line of topic and oral acn treatments. 
 the compani said profit growth stem part from a steadi flow of products.in particular, it cite the strong perform of it fibr trim diet line. 
 such factor have led a number of japanes concern to seek u.s. product capabilities, most recent in semiconductors.th agreement should buttress xerox line of electron typewriters. 
 xerox, which has never done high-volum manufactur for anoth company, also should benefit becaus it will be abl to use more of the capac at it high autom factori in fremont, calif.brother, base in nagoya, japan, said the xerox daisy-wheel printer will give it a faster, more power product than it now has in that line. 
 in each year sinc 1961, he has turn out draw for about 600 women outfits, display in four separ collections.unlik most high-fashion hous here, yves saint laurent s.a. make money on sell the fancy, expens cloth mr. saint laurent designs, as well as the more-access ready-to-wear lines. 
 in the 1970s, toshiba focus on integr circuit for consum goods, neglect the industri chip use in computers.bi the time the compani began make those chips, nec and hitachi ltd. were so far ahead in memori chip that toshiba consid drop the line. 
 he didn't set a timet for the reduction.ask at the meet whether the compani increas leverag meant that coca-cola was "load for bear," -- prepar for an acquisit -- mr. goizueta reiter that ani fresh acquisit would be within the compani exist lines. 
 american cyanamid co. said it is put up for sale it fragranc and skin-car business, jacquelin cochran inc.cyanamid said the business, which includ the la prairi skin-car line, is "a small part" of the shulton consum product segment it acquir in 1971. 
 eli lilli & co. hybritech inc. unit file a patent infring suit against abbott laboratori in a feder court in los angeles. lilli unit claim in the suit that north chicago, ill.-bas abbott sell diagnost kit that infring on hybritech tandem brand name line of test products. lilli said the hybritech line is base on a patent method of use monoclon antibodi to detect pregnancy, cancer and infecti disease. 
 conoco is a unit of wilmington, del.-bas du pont co.basf, a unit of basf ag of west germany, is a major supplier of private-brand antifreeze/cool with annual sale of about $90 million to $100 million for that line. 
 bull make and market some honeywell-model midsiz comput outsid the u.s.and honeywel market nec supercomput line and bull network know-how in the u.s. 
 in 1985, princ repres about 2% of chesebrough $2.7 billion in sales, and bass account for about 6%.unilev has said that it main interest in chesebrough is the compani personal-car products, such as vaselin and q-tips, and it food products, includ the ragu line. 
 detail of the agreement weren't disclosed.a spokeswoman for the pharmaceut concern said syntex, which market a full line of oral contracept in this countri under it own name, enter the agreement with rugbi laboratori inc. in order to make use of excess manufactur capacity. 
 a spokeswoman for the pharmaceut concern said syntex, which market a full line of oral contracept in this countri under it own name, enter the agreement with rugbi laboratori inc. in order to make use of excess manufactur capacity.th oral contracept syntex will manufactur and sell to rugbi are ident to a line syntex produc on which patent protect has expired, she added. 
 oak said the group it is acquir from new york-bas electron technolog had revenu of $18.7 million in the fiscal year end sept. 30.oak, which produc cabl televis equipment, previous said it was plan an acquisit program involv smaller addit to it current lines, and possibl larger purchas outsid it current business. 
 unilev had alreadi care studi chesebrough as one of sever possibl acquisit target in the u.s., mr. angus said.th compani want richardson-vick part for it oil of olay line of skin products. 
 canada dri report a $2.3 million loss in 1986.the acquisit complement the intern strength of it schwepp line of mixers, cadburi said. 
 time mirror -- which publish the los angel time and other newspap -- own onli one trade publication, a st. louis-bas magazin call sport good dealer.but the compani note that it also own sever special public and has been tri to expand that line. 
 mani retail report tight inventori and few plan for big promot sale in the week ahead.higher-pr good were the best seller in line rang from toy to apparel, part because, some retail thought, of the new tax law, which will elimin deduct for sale tax begin next year. 
 she is one of sever charact that togeth brought in $17.6 million in licens fee to american greet in it fiscal 1986, end last feb. 28.the summary-tri juri decid for american greet in find that there had been no intent for mrs. sargent to have commerci right to the work she did for the compani and that her 1977 work on so-cal leader cards, which were part of the process of develop the strawberri shortcak line of greet cards, wasn't original. 
 analyst said that some of it recent introduc toy give it a good chanc of return to profit in 1987.in particular, coleco new starcom toy -- male action figur that move via magnet and spring -- give "everi indic of be one of the best new action line this year," said david liebowitz, an analyst with american secur corp. other promis new product includ a new line of talk cabbag patch kids, a new board game name ubi and talk toy name story-tel alf and wisecrack alf, mr. liebowitz added. 
 it use electr puls appli through electrod pad appli to a patient back and chest, zmi added.zmi said the decis will result in cardiac be enjoin from make and sell it line of pace aid pacemakers. 
 but other sourc said the purchas may be complet by the end of the week.revlon is also negoti to licens the claud montana fragranc line from monteil, the sourc said. 
 you wouldn't write home about their profits."ms. hall also said that revlon may be look at other cosmet line that are current up for sale.som wall street sourc are specul that among those line are piec of charl of the ritz group ltd., recent purchas by yves saint laurent intern s.a. 
 some wall street sourc are specul that among those line are piec of charl of the ritz group ltd., recent purchas by yves saint laurent intern s.a.a previous reported, paris-bas saint laurent is sell the upscal charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff brands, as well as less prestigi line such as jean nate and bain de soleil. 
 mr. richman doesn't expect big problems, and he promis improv profit over the next three to five year through steady, prudent growth.th compani has a strong base: 15 of it domest line are no. 1 brand in their product categories. 
 while tri to reviv it consum product business, it miss out on the frozen entre boom; frozen food is the fastest-grow packag food area right now.th compani tri a line of frozen chees dinner that it quiet fold last year. 
 but kraft is tri again.it current is test a line of frozen entre that includ lasagna and sever meat dishes. 
 some in the industri doubt whether mr. richman is up to the job.an attorney who join kraft law depart in 1954 after graduat from harvard law school, his background isn't in marketing, which is what need to pump new life into tire lines. 
 an attorney who join kraft law depart in 1954 after graduat from harvard law school, his background isn't in marketing, which is what need to pump new life into tire lines.when he spoke to analyst last week in florida, mr. richman was enthusiast about line extensions, which are new version of exist brands. 
 but some analyst scof that he seem to have just discov a strategi that other food giant have use for years.a kraft spokesman said, however, that no matter what other compani have done, kraft still has room for line extens becaus it hasn't use that strategi much. 
 coleco said cabbag patch kid sale underw a 62% declin in 1986 to about $230 million from $600 million a year earlier.moreover, toy introduc by coleco in 1986 -- includ it rambo, furskin and wrinkl line of toy -- didn't do much to offset coleco declin sales. 
 but saint laurent also is sell the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff brands, which are more prestigious.asid from saint laurent products, the onli signific line it is retain is one call gianni versace. 
 for fiscal 1986, litton had net incom of $71.1 million, or $2.52 a share, on sale of $4.52 billion.litton didn't break out pre-tax profit by segment, although it industri system and servic line, of which the resourc group is part, had a loss of $30.5 million. 
 more than half the industri system and servic revenu came from the oil-servic business.litton said it hasn't ani plan to shed the petroleum servic lines, and ad that the ventur with dresser "repres an expans of the business."litton said the atlas divis of dallas-bas dresser is involv with oil well log (measuring) servic that would complement litton current seismic exploration, reservoir description, core analysi and data interpret lines. 
 hyundai motor america said it rais the base price on it excel subcompact car line an averag of 2.1%. 
 he said that for everi quarter in which the fcc fail to make a decision, the compani earn will be reduced.however, he said that even if the fcc didn't certifi the readers, and the compani was forc to elimin the line, checkpoint still wouldn't sustain a loss. 
 friday close of $6.375, down 12.5 cents, indic the market current valu the compani at about $164 million, repres a loss in market valu of $254 million sinc june.th compani loss are main the result of the cost of expansion, some poor perform merchandis line and it entri in the southwest market, where retail are suffer from the rippl effect of the energi slump. 
 ross store said it will close 25 underperform stores, most locat in the depress energi states, and open 10 new store in other exist markets.charg relat to the closur and to discontinu merchandis line will result in a pre-tax fourth period charg of $40 million, the compani said. 
 balli drive into the hotel-casino industri has made health club an increas awkward fit, analyst said, and thus the most like candid for divestiture.bi shed the health-club line, balli could focus on it remain oper -- gambl machines, state lotteri and amus centers. 
 the charg produc a big loss in 1984.and some investors, nervous that health club also are a fad business, question whether balli isn't build up a line that could collaps just as quickly. 
 briefs: univers of louisvill presid donald swain becom the first univers presid to head a local chamber of commerce. . . .white chocol is one of three flavor offer in neiman-marcus chocolate-flavor toothpast line. 
 for a short time, they will donat a few cent from each sale to a charity.but scott paper co. has carri the idea further by creat a line of seven products, a portion of whose sale alway go to charity. 
 after six month in test in the western u.s., scott say help hand is on target, have contribut $600,000 of it first-year goal of $1 million."we'r abl to afford the donat becaus of the market effici of advertis the entir line as one brand," say don dietrich, a scott executive. 
 it cite tyco doubl dough doer and flower makin basket extrus toys.also name in the suit was glad inc., a close held new york compani that kenner parker said help design tyco line. 
 mr. young, hewlett-packard chief executive, said, "our goal is to manag expens so that they grow at a slower rate than revenue, while maintain our commit to new-product develop and support."hewlett-packard has said it will ship a newli design line of busi minicomputers, it model 930 and 950, dure the second half of calendar 1987, a deadlin be close watch by investor and custom alike. 
 net incom in the year-earli period includ a tax credit of $20.6 million.mattel has said that lower domest demand for it master of the univers line of toy was one factor troubl the compani in 1986. 
 kodak even launch it own blimp in japan to counter fuji green blimp that fli at special event in the u.s.fuji has upstag kodak in the past, most notabl in 1983 when it introduc a new line of film short befor kodak unveil it new film. 
 the unit had 1986 sale of about $362 million.th third main line of the wholesal distribut group, amfac health care, which distribut pharmaceuticals, "has turn the corner toward profitability," the compani said. 
 term of the sale by the baker oil tool inc. unit to trico, a maker of petroleum industri equipment, weren't disclosed.bak intern has said, however, that it expect proceed from sale of the pump busi and of baker tricon rock bit line to total as much as $75 million.a baker spokesman said that the drill bit line is "substanti larger" than the pump business, and that discuss with "sever interest parties" about the drill bit oper are continuing. 
 a baker spokesman said that the drill bit line is "substanti larger" than the pump business, and that discuss with "sever interest parties" about the drill bit oper are continuing.a previous reported, the justic depart had warn that it would sue to block the propos merger unless the two baker line were sold. 
 moreover, the new at&t machin come as mani manufactur -- led by compaq -- are move to a new generat of machin base on the far more power intel 80386 microchip.at&t new machines, price from $3,045 to $5,795 depend on features, aren't much cheaper than the ibm line and don't use at&t unix oper system, which it has been push as a new industri standard. 
 a polaroid spokesman said the cambridge, mass.-bas compani sold 4.3 million instant camera last year, an 800,000 increas from 1985, and that sale of the compani new spectra camera, introduc in april, account for the bulk of the increase."spectra was the big gun in term of (the increas in camera) unit sold, and spectra sold for more money than our other camera lines," he said. 
 fixed-incom fund should attract the lion share of sale but some say by a lower margin than past year becaus of low rates.new toy abound, mani of them high tech, as fantasi line decline. 
 "this year is like to see a record number of new product from the major companies," say analyst david liebowitz of american secur corp.on reason: the peak of sever import toy lines, includ cabbag patch dolls, transform and master of the universe. 
 result also were depress somewhat by the time of the complet last novemb of vf acquisit of blue bell hold co., which had the effect of incorpor season depress decemb sale of some blue bell units.vf own jean line, the lee brand, also experienc some sluggishness. 
 system softwar associ inc. said it complet it initi offer of 1,357,100 common share at $13 each.th chicago-bas compani develops, market and support an integr line of busi applic softwar for certain intern busi machin corp. computers. 
 these divis includ bassett walker, a maker of sweat suit and relat apparel; vaniti fair, a lingeri maker; and modern globe, an underwear maker.mr. pugh said vf has complet it integr of blue bell apparel oper and now is work on "reestablish the identity" of the wrangler jean brand while continu to expand market share for rustler, blue bell other jean line. 
 reebok chief financi offic attribut the activ to posit reaction to the compani product at a sport good trade show over the weekend."som skeptic that might have exist about the compani abil to keep (growth) go was remov by the posit respons to our footwear and our apparel line," he said. 
 the group make hydraul devices, larg for use in road equipment, and material-handl machineri use in airports.whittak is involv in a restructur program design to help the compani focus on it technolog and chemic lines. 
 saturn has it own engineering, design and market staffs.similarly, 3m co. allow it employe to spend as much as 15% of their time on independ develop projects, one of which becam the phenomen success line of "post-it" products. 
 now, in what mrs. medrich call "that wonder american phenomenon where a small idea get institution by the establishment," tradit chocol purveyor are rush to get on the bandwagon.se candi shops, a san francisco-bas chain whose logo is a grandmoth white-hair woman ad a truffl line last year and plan to expand it. 
 but a counter trend may be set in.campbel godiva unit, the brand that start it all, has introduc a more american line. 
 at&t expect that it cost-cut program won't begin produc result until at least next year.chairman jame olson said that vital to the firm growth are long-dist servic and it comput line. 
 the broad claim made by the patent holder in the two current disput have stir criticism."you just don't patent a whole product," say alan shugart, chairman of seagat technology, which has just unveil a line of 3 1/2-inch drive and which freeli trade it patent on specif part of older 5 1/4-inch drives. 
 it declin to elaborate.th maker of medic diagnost test and instrument said the restructur is design to enhanc it posit in the immunodiagnost markets, and to reduc it emphasi on some clinic chemistri product by discontinu certain lines. 
 digit equip corp., as expected, introduc two low-pric comput in it vax line. 
 but longer term, the stripped-down model should "gener more busi for big machines."th model 14se is a single-processor version of the cray x-mp line and come with four million word of memory, equival to about 34,000 kilobytes. 
 some analyst suggest that puma might have been put too much emphasi on mr. becker; his court perform were show sign of be the prime mover in puma stock trade last year.still, puma is gear up it becker campaign this year by instal "bori becker shops" in 1,000 u.s. retail sport stores, featur the complet line of puma tenni and casual wear. 
 sale for u.s. sear store open more than one year grew onli 2.7%.new york-bas j.c. penney co. comparable-stor sale drop 2.4%, in part becaus of it strategi of phase out less profit lines, such as sport goods, said jeffrey edelman, an analyst for drexel burnham lambert inc. 
 digit equip is expect to unveil next week low-cost comput and workstat in it popular vax line. 
 that right, israeli.thi spring, american will get their first tast of a line of 25 gourmet food and beverag product made by sever differ compani in israel but all market under the newli creat brand name betavon. 
 while competitor are impress with the stylish new chevrolet corsica and beretta compacts, gm offici conced that half their sale could come at the expens of other gm compacts.meanwhile, gm won't launch it line of aerodynam midsiz car until the fall. 
 digit equip corp. is expect next week to unveil low-pric comput and workstat in it popular vax line that will make the compani much more competit with other maker of engin computers. 
 she said mani custom who use larger digit system also will buy the low-pric vax comput becaus they can run the same softwar the larger system do.digit said it has schedul a news confer in boston for next tuesday to announc "two new major addit to" it vax line. 
 -- the proton saga.thi malaysian-built compact is to be the second car line import by global motors. 
 most peopl would stay away from it."mr. nordmann also suggest that american home probabl would be better off buy a compani with a stronger prescription-drug line and more patents. 
 trw also said it receiv a record volum of contract award last year.in late 1985, trw began a restructur that involv sell busi -- main aircraft part and industri product -- with annual sale of about $800 million, prune back remain line to their most profit product and a general cost-reduct effort. 
 net for the year rose 57% to $202.5 million, or $4.36 a share.that compar with the prior year $129.1 million, or $2.68 a share, which includ $5.9 million of profit from discontinu line and a $3 million gain from the sale of much of the formica brand product group business. 
 an oscar mayer spokesman said the status of the employe hasn't been determined.cargil accord follow an industri trend in which the big packer are expand into the meat line that are be abandon by less effici operators. 
 ball also said the ventur should have a "posit impact" on futur earnings.th ventur will manufactur ball consum glass products, includ it home canning line, but onli ball will sell them. 
 in composit american stock exchang trading, atari share close at $20.125, up 12.5 cents.industri analyst say the compani strong perform indic it st line of comput is establish itself in the crowd pc marketplace.introduc in 1985, the st machines, which aren't compat with ani other line of pcs, are garner a larg enough user base, analyst said, to induc softwar writer to creat program for the computers. 
 mattel say it has the exclus right to call it toy "slime," and is seek to enjoin hasbro from use the name and an unspecifi amount in punit damages.mattel introduc it self-describ "glop" in 1976, then repack the unctuous matter a few year ago as "slime pit," which it sold as an accessori to it master of the univers line of toys. 
 in addition, debartolo has a seven-year option give it right of first refus on the sale of jordan marsh-new england, the bon, and jordan marsh-florida.thes lines, and the stern depart store chain, would be the onli remain asset of allied, if ann taylor and brook brother were sold. 
 in contrast, domest manufactur have offer a wide varieti of dealer and consum incent over the last sever year to spur sale overal as well as on specif slow-sel models.gener motor corp., ford motor co. and chrysler corp. are current offer custom rebat or low-interest financ on mani car lines. 
 stratus comput inc. introduc a more power line of fault-toler comput design to rapid handl mani transact from distant terminals. 
 stratus comput are use by mani brokerag firm and stock exchang to handl secur quot and custom account data.stratus said the new xa2000 line includ five system with price from $261,000 to $1.1 million. 
 kimberly-clark attribut most of the increas to lower research, advertising, promot and sell expenses.th compani said the 1985 fourth-quart research expens were "abnorm high" becaus of work on a new line of thin, superabsorb huggies-brand diapers, launch in 1986, and other feminin and person care products. 
 the new comput is part of hewlett-packard attempt to refit the intern architectur of it new comput to make them much more powerful.th spectrum line has been under develop for five year at a cost of more than $250 million, in what the compani call the largest project it has ever undertaken. 
 the toledo plant is one of the older oper auto plant in the country, with some of the build date back to the turn of the century.a is the case in wisconsin, amc is seek some help from state govern in financ the toledo project in part becaus it has been incur high cost to start up product of a new line of mid-siz car at a new plant in bramalea, ontario. 
 however, continu strength of the vhs video format and the introduct of vhs-c, a popular compact system back by such major compani as general electr co. rca corp. unit and zenith electron corp., have slow the momentum of 8-mm.kodak deni that it plan to discontinu the line, but some industri analyst indic the move was likely. 
 mr. buckner said eta could produc perhap $60 million in revenu this year, but probabl no profit befor 1989.despit intens competit pressur on the compani mainfram and data-storag product businesses, mr. price said control data intend to retain both lines. 
 comput memori offici couldn't be reach for comment.in july, the compani said it had stop product and had hire invest banker to either sell the compani or acquir other lines. 
 the boe commerci spokesman said that the compani now is concentr on a two-aisle, 150-seat configur for the 7j-7.the propos 100-seat 737 model, be a deriv of the current line of aircraft, could be readi to fli year earlier. 
 buick, oldsmobile, and pontiac announc discount of up to $1,200 on options.thos program last through april 30, and cover about 73% of buick line, 84% of oldsmobile's, and 92% of pontiac's. 
 gm, on the other hand, had too much capacity, which becam a drag on earn last year.ford perform also was fuel by the success of it new taurus and sabl line of midsiz cars. 
 it expand in the u.s. last year by buy canada dri and sunkist drink from rjr nabisco inc. and acquir a 30% stake in close held dr pepper co. ironically, general cinema onc own sunkist but sold it in 1984 to r.j. reynolds, sinc renam rjr nabisco.gener cinema is primarili a pepsi-cola bottler in the u.s. but it also handl dr pepper and sunkist lines. 
 jack nicklaus problem reflect the hazard mani athlet face as they tri to turn their sport career into financi security.th entranc to golden bear headquart in north palm beach is distinctive, adorn with golf club and bags, photo of mr. nicklaus in action, his signatur cloth line and the golfer book (in english, french and japanese). 
 intern busi machin corp. unveil two model in it sierra mainfram line and increas the power of it exist mainframes, while cut price on some of those units. 
 reebok has stay hot by continu expand it product line.although the compani initi depend sole on soft-leath aerob shoe in flashy, pastel colors, it introduc men basketbal shoe in earli 1986, a line of men and women sportswear in the spring and a new line of children nonathlet shoe call weebok last fall. 
 that gave reebok about 15% (unit volume) of the u.s. basketbal shoe market in 1986, make it third after nike inc. and convers inc., accord to smart inc., a market research firm.reebok said, however, that the woman basketbal shoe it introduc in march wasn't as success as the men line. 
 sale of the compani children athlet shoe also rose sharply, as did running-sho sales, despit sluggish in that industry.sal of reebok apparel line -- includ tenni wear, aerob and fit cloth introduc in march -- ad slight more than $40 million to 1986 sales. 
 the diamond star assembl plant in normal, ill., is schedul for complet in the spring of 1988.the compani said it will introduc a new line of passeng car in the 1989 model year. 
 hewlett-packard co., in a bid to boost market share for it redesign line of minicomputers, said it lop 28% off the price of it recent introduc hp 9000 model 840 technic workstations. 
 hewlett-packard said it cut 28% off the price of it recent introduc model 840 technic workstation, an auspici move for it redesign line of minicomputers. 
 but ibm also had some problem that it could have addressed.ibm said sale were disappoint for it midrang comput lines, which have been critic for be incompatible, and it said sale were flat in person computers, where imit have manag to undercut ibm prices. 
 just yesterday, maynard, mass.-bas digit equip corp. announc that it enter the mainfram market with product clear aim at ibm.analyst also say that ibm product to address it problem with it midrang and person comput line won't help until at least the second half, and possibl not until next year. 
 intermed fourth-quart loss from continu oper was $22.1 million, compar with a year-ago loss from continu oper of $13.3 million.for the year, intermed post a loss from continu oper of $17.7 million, compar with a loss from continu line of $19.6 million a year earlier. 
 it hasn't been veri success so far in get order for it telecommun equipment, and last year it lost an import order for telephon switch in japan to northern telecom ltd., the canadian telecommun equip company.separately, at&t said it is cut price between 12% and 17% on it pc 6300 person computers, the second time it has cut price on machin in that line in the last six months. 
 the compani isn't expect to contract for product of ani more unix pcs this year becaus the machin hasn't sold well.sal of the 6300 line also have been below expect recently. 
 johnson, meantime, hasn't been sit by idly.it recent develop two line extens -- a babi condition and condit formula shampoo -- to appeal to older children. 
 minnetonka inc. said it and it west german partner agre to sell the unprofit check-up toothpast line. 
 minnetonka has oper the check-up busi in a joint ventur with henkel corp., the u.s. subsidiari of henkel kgaa, dusseldorf, west germany.minnetonka introduc the check-up line with much fanfar in 1984; it was the first toothpast introduc in the u.s. with a pump. 
 amdahl, a mainfram maker, yesterday report that fourth-quart net incom doubl on a 31% revenu rise.amdahl expect it 1987 revenu to grow more than 15% -- compar with littl or no growth for the overal mainfram market -- becaus of a new line of computers. 
 comput associ has grown rapid by focus on a part of the softwar market call system utilities, which let data process center manag their oper more efficiently.it has also made a seri of acquisit to broaden it line of busi software, ad such product as a spreadsheet and a word processor. 
 anyway, "the standard now exist independ of ibm," suggest rod canion, compaq president.a these compani see it, the ibm pc line of comput is by now so entrench and so much softwar has been written for it, that even if ibm were to stop make comput tomorrow other would pick up the ibm standard. 
 kirk roden, sale manag at the microag store in berkeley, calif., say industri rumor have ibm alter the keyboard, the graphic and perhap the basic oper of the 386 chip, which might requir a differ oper system.ibm might make these proprietari featur hard to duplicate, if onli becaus it has taken a beat from low-pric clone that copi it pc line. 
 the compani new line of high-fiber, low-cholesterol muffins, which were introduc last summer, "look good," said mr. bryan.th muffin are among sever line of new product the compani is test that fit it expans into product that are "conveni and perceiv as be good for you," mr. bryan said.for example, sara lee plan to offer a new line of french bread this spring or summer, he said. 
 but the new line of health-consci product don't mean that sara lee will abandon it sugari cake and rolls; the sweeter product are sell well too, he added.unit volum of sara lee meat lines, includ it jimmi dean sausag and biscuit products, rose 6% in the quarter, "on the low side of the increas we'v been running," said mr. bryan. 
 wang laboratori inc. introduc three minicomput to fill a gap in the middl of it comput line. 
 drew peck, analyst for gartner securities, predict intel will earn $58 million, or 50 cent a share, for the year, on revenu of $1.5 billion.mr. peck said intel should begin see benefit from cost cut made last year, and he expect a strong show from the microprocessor lines. 
 all american budget gourmet brand has within three year captur 13.5% of the $3 billion frozen single-dish market.and it has grab 6.6% of the $1 billion frozen dinner market with a line launch onli last january. 
 the result, he says: "fair easi pickings."budget gourmet has found a nich between campbel expens le menu line and it cheaper but lower-qu swanson tv dinners.new product facil help keep cost down, and all american goe anoth step by skip le menu plastic plate or the boil-in bag use by nestl stouffer line. 
 term weren't disclosed.maytag, which make kitchen applianc and laundri products, said it sold toastmaster, which make small appliances, to focus on it core lines. 
 in troy, mich., a k mart corp. spokesman said toy "r" us cut may affect the no. 2 retailer."you'r certain not go to sit there with higher-pr items," he said of k mart, a major competitor of toy "r" us in toy lines. 
 yet rival amdahl and nation semiconductor are expect to boost shipment of ibm-compat mainfram to a combin 500 machin from onli 100 last year, cut into ibm sale of the multimillion-dollar systems.and ibm new and much-ballyhoo line of midrang systems, where it has been hurt most, won't be ship in big quantiti until the second half. 
 tommi thompson, wisconsin newli elect republican governor, said yesterday that chrysler also would invest an amount that he didn't disclose, if amc begin it renov plan.an amc spokesman said that the auto maker need help from wisconsin to financ the ventur in larg part becaus it has been bear signific cost to get under way product this year of a new line of renault-designed, midsiz car at a new plant in bramalea, ontario. 
 he said he "cautious optimistic" about get legisl approv for the financing.h said jan. 25 is the deadlin for such approv and for amc to convinc state offici that the compani can develop the new jeep line. 
 cooper, a maker of tool and compress and drill equipment, declin to disclos the valu of the transaction.coop said the purchas of sutorbilt corp. and duroflow corp. will complement it line of blowers, air compressor and pumps. 
 what those fan have been watch is the latest video made by a profession sport team: the brown "master of the gridiron."although the team loss to the denver bronco sunday has alreadi hurt sale of the 17-minut film, the video has earn a reput as the strangest product in a line of video that began last year with the chicago bear "super bowl shuffle." 
 new york telephon and it ad agency, young & rubicam inc., have gone the furthest in pitch "brands" of calls.th phone compani say that the ad creator even borrow idea from greet card to compil it extens brand line. 
 bayli corp. said it sign a licens agreement to make and market cheroke group line of men and boy apparel. 
 bayli corp. said it sign a licens agreement to make and market cheroke group line of men and boy apparel.jam argyropoulos, chairman and chief execut offic of north hollywood, calif.-bas cherokee, said bayli will pay his compani a 5% royalti on net sale of the line. 
 more recently, sever other lead tire produc also have narrow their activities.a a result of a takeov effort by sir jame goldsmith, the anglo-french financier, industri leader goodyear tire & rubber co. is sell aerospace, wheel manufacturing, real estat and energi lines. 
 among it firsts: low-fat milk, introduc in britain in 1981.sainsburi isn't alone; retail mark & spencer plc st. michael brand may be britain most popular label, adorn food, clothing, bed and a new line of classic recordings. 
 whittak corp. said it complet the sale of it health mainten organ line to travel corp. for a total of $48 million. 
 west point-pepperel said cluett, peabodi & co., an apparel concern acquir in januari 1986, contribut $193 million to sale and $2.9 million to net income.cluett contribut came primarili from it shirt and hosieri group, while perform in other line -- includ tailor cloth and children wear -- was less robust reflect softer retail demand. 
 as with other type of liabil insurance, an extend price war among writer of coverag for director and offic help to make the busi unprofit over the past few years.and even more than in other lines, claim balloon far beyond expectations. 
 also, the compani will launch a number of major new product or push exist product into new markets, he said.th stouffer food unit recent introduc a line of frozen complet dinner under the name dinner supreme.previously, stouffer food offer mani entrees, includ the lean cuisin low-calori line, but didn't have complet dinners. 
 the divis is plan to add fender extens and make other style chang on the 1988 model of the eldorado; the chang are intend to make the car look less like relat buick and oldsmobil models.yesterday action will give gm "more distinct between car lines," mr. hoglund said. 
 a closer look at luken illustr differ as well as similar with big steel.a medium-s specialti steelmaker, luken has carv out a modest profit nich churn out an expans line of a singl product-steel plate -- in addit to some product for the electr equip and construct markets. 
 mr. smith said that "deliv high qualiti products" eventu would prove to wall street and the public that "what we did was right."at his news conference, mr. smith also was pepper with question from local report about whether the wisconsin invest board stanc regard the perot affair would affect whether gm commit to produc a new line of pickup truck at the compani janesville, wis., facility. 
 those stakes, ibm said yesterday, have been sold back to the compani shareholders; ibm wouldn't elaborate.ibm said it form the instrument unit in 1980 as a way to sell comput to analyt laboratories, but later found comput sale fare well without have to sell the instrument line. 
 these smaller retail are adept at exploit the new consum nich becaus they offer depth in a narrow rang of products, such as toy or appliances.mani general merchandis -- mobil corp. montgomeri ward & co. and j.c. penney co., for exampl -- have respond by drop some product to concentr on fewer lines. 
 the amount wasn't disclosed.augat disclos it recent purchas the complet modular connector line of compagni teletechniqu modern s.a. of paris. 
 in the first nine month of 1986, the divis had oper profit of $43.3 million on sale of $522 million.much of that improv profit pictur was becaus of the compani success with it dekuyp schnapp line. 
 ncr corp. plan to unveil today a line of comput system for retail that incorpor recent advanc in design intend to prevent system failures. 
 great atlant & pacif tea co. 300 super fresh food markets, which trim wage but gave worker some say in run store and bonus when sale revenu increase, are "the most success part of our company," say a&p vice presid michael rourke.a&p recent convert store to the super fresh line in minnesota, maryland, virginia and washington, d.c. 
 trico said that upon sign of a definit agreement, it will withdraw the "poison pill" sharehold right plan it adopt last month.a paccar spokesman said the compani think trico oper will make "a good fit" with the compani current lines. 
 valtek, base in springville, utah, manufactur automat control valv and valv actuat for the chemic process industry.thes product complement duriron line of valves, pump and filtrat equipment. 
 esquir magazin group remain unit, the press and video division, was acquir by a group of shareholders, includ it management.th divis publish book and produc a line of how-to videocassettes. 
 a few will be wild success -- but far more will fail."commerci toy compani might introduc a total of about 40 line a year," say henri orenstein, the owner of toy builders, which develop toy idea and advis toy makers. 
 "at least 25% of the rest will be flops."cryst starr is the central charact in a line of doll call "moondreamers," which hasbro has spent two year developing. 
 the illustr suggest a cast of charact call "moon beamers," who live in "starri up" and send dream full of fun and adventur to children on earth.a line of mini-dol charact is hard unique.kenn parker toy strawberri shortcak and similar line sold by rival toy compani have been around for sever years. 
 the toy maker also decid to aim the doll at littl girls; thus, all but one of the origin stori male charact were chang to females."you don't sell (a line of) littl boy to girls," explain roseann radosevich, design director for doll at hasbro. (but bucki buckaroo, a space cowboy, remain male to add an element of romance.) 
 from start to finish, the costum took eight month to complet in bulk.finally, confid it had a winner after near a year of development, hasbro gave a sneak preview of the five-dol line to four top toy retail in septemb 1985. 
 encouraged, hasbro market and design went back to the draw board.they enlarg the line to nine doll to give it more variety. 
 about 59,200 fewer share were outstand in fiscal 1986.the 1986 result reflect signific declin in sale of wood finish and mainten and marin coatings, but a "strong performance" by the coat line valspar acquir from mobil corp. in 1984, mr. wurtel said. 
 beatric cos. purchas ozarka in texas, arrowhead in california and great bear in the northeast and now is the nation largest bottl water company.and mckesson corp., the nation second-largest water bottler, is consid ad a sparkl water to it still water lines. 
 tonka corp. said hasbro inc. has drop it suit challeng tonka new supernatur holograph toys.a previous reported, pawtucket, r.i.-bas hasbro, a toy and game maker, and new york-bas abrams/gentil entertain inc., accus tonka of misappropri inform about a "secret" concept for a toy line. 
 for example, although hasbro, the biggest toy maker, also market board game and other "gender-neutral" items, it organ it biggest seller strict along sex-rol lines.it wholesal catalog featur a girl toy line that includ real babi and get in shape, girl! exercis kits.th boy toy line includ transform and inhumanoid -- small, hard-plast charact that in a dollhous might be consid doll but in an imaginari war zone are known as "action figures." 
 moreover, the fed said that even if such commerci paper activ were cover by the glass-steagal act, bank wouldn't be consid to be violat the law, which prohibit them from be "engag principally" in underwrit securities, so long as they follow certain guidelines.th guidelines, spell out in the fed decision, are design to ensur that the secur activ are "on an insubstanti line of activity." 
 creativ black book publish a directori of creativ servic use primarili by art director in advertis agenc and by televis producers.macmillan, which is involv in educ publish and inform services, said it purchas the directori to extend "the line of inform product target to the advertis industry." 
 a seagram spokesman said, "we don't comment on rumors."th compani is said to be interest in sell certain of it domest brands, which includ taylor california cellars, taylor wine co. of new york, paul masson, gold seal vineyards, the monterey vineyard line and sterl vineyards. 
 caesar world inc. is bet it has a nose for upscal fragrances.th hotel and casino oper said it merchandis subsidiari has retain roth/horn & associates, a bever hills, calif., concern that design and market the success giorgio perfum line, to develop a new line of men and women fragrances. 
 mr. sobel said these products, to appear on the market in the next eight months, will initi be sold at retail shop at the compani seven resorts, and then by direct mail.caesar said it hope eventu to have a complet line of toiletries, includ soaps, shampoo and other products. 
 not all manufactur are reli on product improv to strengthen their positions.park manufactur corp., for one, is ad a flashier, "high-fashion" look to it tradit line of conserv style costum jewelry. 
 rubbermaid inc. said it agre with analyst project that it will earn 95 cent a share to 96 cent a share in 1986, compar with 79 cent a share last year.last year, the maker of household and commerci products, toy and other line earn $57.1 million on sale of $671.4 million. 
 he said that analyst project that the compani was purchas for $30 million are "in the ballpark."however, he say he expect 30% of sale each year will come from new product -- defin as product develop intern that weren't part of rubbermaid line five year earlier, and not includ line extensions, which mere modifi style or design. 
 among the new product rubbermaid is introduc are modular home offic products, just now be shipped, and mold outdoor furniture, under the new brand name sundial, which will be introduc in earli 1987.mr. gault said order for both line are "veri encouraging." 
 mr. gault said order for both line are "veri encouraging."rubbermaid is in the process of expand it intern busi beyond the housewar line that now make up the bulk of it and it is move into new territories. 
 "the onli way to go is up."recently, lister butler design a paper bag decor with an "aristocratic" ribbon and gold coat of arm to launch a line of delux candi from nestle. 
 "the premium segment belong more to pepperidg farm."awar of such pitfalls, market are close monitor consum reaction to expens line extensions. 
 in year end june 30, lear earn $55.5 million, or $3.02 a share, compar with $100.7 million, or $5.51 a share, the year earlier.sal rose to $2.46 billion from $2.37 billion, but the compani aerospac busi and it piper aircraft business-plan line perform poorly. 
 the unit prosper last year from the now-past fad for safari cloth and accessories.oth wonder whether gap, which enjoy a startl turnaround two year ago after hire market expert millard s. drexler, may have made a misstep when it recent move away from some of the line that brought it out of obscurity. 
 the complaint alleg that guin forc renfield to be acquir by mr. riklis, who control schenley.th suit say guin did this to pay mr. rik back for his purport assist dure guin 1986 takeov of distil co. accord to the suit, mr. rik was abl to buy renfield "at a price far less than it fair market value" becaus guin alleg had alreadi promis to switch the u.s. distributorship of it gordon gin and vodka line to schenley from renfield. 
 the drug also is be test for it possibl benefit in treat gum disease.upjohn is also test a new line of drug call lazaroids, which in anim test appear to slow deterior of tissu surround a traumat wound. 
 mr. max, who onc design costum for the soviet union kirov ballet, attend design school in new york and work for tahari ltd., a new york designer, befor move to los angeles.hi lines, which includ short skirt and dress and jacket ensembl in soft knits, are now in mani major depart stores. 
 a similar stori is be play out in san francisco.four year ago, david weinstein, now 39, launch a line of simple, loose-fitting, casual cotton cloth call cp shades.th line is now in 30 depart store across the country, and wholesal revenu was $40 million in 1986. 
 mr. weinstein got his start in the apparel busi 15 year ago by open a store call fresh pants, also in san francisco.h sold dy t-shirts, sweat shirt and painter pants, but problem with qualiti eventu convinc him that he should design and manufactur his own line of clothing. 
 some compani say their sale might be higher if they were in new york.san francisco-born eletra casadei, 34, design even dresses, sportswear and a line of parti gown call td4 ("to die for"), which are inspir by rock videos. 
 but gap apparel hasn't been sell to the older crowd as well as it has in the past.and in deemphas it teen-ag customers, gap didn't promot it back-to-school line as heavili as it usual has, hurt august sales. 
 i imagin a tough decis like this from the itc will remind them of the sensit of this issu in the u.s."th import ban cover samsung line of dynam random access memori chips, known as drams, as well as computers, facsimil machin and certain telecommun equip and printer if they contain chip that infring texa instrument patents. 
 a feder judge, bare mask his mirth, dismiss a copyright-infring and unjust-enrich suit brought by two toy-anim design against hasbro inc. and walt disney co.th suit, file by joann bloom and rene scelia, alleg that the "wuzzles" toy line introduc by hasbro and disney in 1985 infring on their charact call "whats." 
 consid dean knockoff of the popsicl produc by gold bond ice cream co. of green bay, wis.when other compani brought out a private-label popsicl line, supermarket ask dean for anoth version. 
 ohio art co. said it will stop distribut britain petit ltd. line of typewriters, sew machines, cash regist and other toys, effect jan. 1. 
 last year, petit toy repres about 9% of ohio art $47.4 million in sales.th bryan, ohio, maker of toy and the etch a sketch draw devic said petite, a unit kingdom toy maker, plan to handl the distribut and market of it own line, begin next year. 
 brockway had previous been the no. 2 producer.owens-illinoi had been diversifi in recent year but, face with a threat to it major line, it becam determin to expand in glass containers, sourc said. 
 ford motor co. announc tentat base-pric increases, mani of them in the 4%-to-6% range, on the 1988 model it current ship to dealers.th price increas cover near 70% of the compani car lines, and a spokesman said the auto maker will announc price on the remain product in the next few months. 
 chemic has a major acquisit pend of horizon bancorp., new jersey fifth-largest bank hold company.bi decid to sell it cleveland-bas chemic financi servic corp. unit, chemic is signal it desir to have a full-servic retail bank presenc in the region where it doe business, not mere one line of service, analyst said. 
 in 1987, it expect to sell 750,000 vehicl here compar with 550,000 in japan.honda is forecast that about 100,000 of those u.s. sale will be from it acura division, up from 52,869 in 1986 when it introduc the luxuri line. 
 the u.s. unit of soni corp. of japan introduc a line of portabl audio product design for children. 
 the compani sold 184,378 car in the u.s. in the first eight month of this year.hyundai introduc it line, all version of a subcompact call the excel, in the u.s. in februari 1986. 
 a strike in canada could hamper product becaus the compani u.s. plant depend on part and assembl work done at canadian facilities.chrysl has schedul overtim at it st. loui no. 2 plant, which build the compani popular minivan models, and at it kenosha no. 1 plant in wisconsin, which build the dodg diplomat, plymouth gran furi and the luxuri fifth avenu lines. 
 houdaill made machin tools, larg order by manufactur late in the year.but like mani other big board-list concerns, houdaill eventu diversifi it lines. 
 "we begin to get order each year in the spring," assert a rauch official.profession trader move in to buy the share in february, if they hear good report of the new christma line display at trade shows. 
 they includ sever type of missiles, and, not coincidentally, japan now is focus it defens research on develop it own missil -- potenti competitor to the u.s.-mad stinger, sidewind and harpoon.u.s. trade offici say japan has gone a step further, use technolog bought in connect with u.s. arm purchas to broaden it line of commerci aircraft. 
 it main defens product are radar and heat-seek missil decoy and communic system for anti-submarin warfare.it commerci line includ electron microscop and fuse for industri and electron products. 
 togeth they provid the function of ibm new ps/2 model 30, mr. campbel said.mr. campbel expect that chip & technolog will come out with chip set mimick the capabl of other, higher-perform model in ibm ps/2 line "bi the end of the year." 
 the first machin is design for multipl simultan user via separ termin in an offic network, the second for use by a few scientist or engineers.th new microvax model are like to provid strong competit for ibm 9370 line introduc last year -- and intern identifi as the "vax-killer." 
 kenneth olsen, presid of digital, play down the ibm challeng saying, "we never thought they need an answer."however, other digit execut said the new product work as fast as a midrang 9370 but are price below the bottom of the ibm line. 
 it lost near $50 million over the past four years, and it market valu was decimated.in january, as activis struggl to rebound with a new line of pc software, mr. levi left his post as chairman amid a fall out with the compani board. 
 the price of workstat introduc by digit equip yesterday wasn't as aggress as some analyst had anticipated, mean less competit for apollo and sun products.digit new microvax is seen as a challeng to intern busi machin 9370 line. 
 tokheim sank 3 1/8 to 27 after the compani said earn for it third quarter, end aug. 31, were probabl below analyst project of between $2.6 million and $3.3 million, or 40 cent to 50 cent a share.offici cite slower-than-expect accept of a new line of it fuel dispensers, note that august sale and earn were particular below expectations. 
 mr. ostrand "has complet knowledg of ari confidenti plan for develop the market for the comfort slipper," as well as "those supplier ari has discov to be the most effici and reliable," the compani contend in it suit.ari also contend that r.g. barri recent introduc a line of foot soother slipper that are "a direct copy" of it comfort slipper. 
 the compani most infam recal also was fire related: the 1978 recal of 1.7 million ford pinto and mercuri bobcat was to repair a defect that caus fire when gas tank ruptur in rear-end collisions.th fuel-lin recal affect some of ford biggest-sel lines: the ford taurus and mercuri sabl midsiz cars, the compact ford escort, the ford f-seri and ranger pickup trucks, and the lincoln continent and town car. 
 claud p. mancel, former on a special assign at the technic center, was name manager, research and development, at the center, succeed mr. booth.thoma a. moore, former general manag of the vidal sassoon hair-product line, was name manager, health and person care product division, succeed mr. lieppe.karen l. hendricks, former associ director, product development, health and person care product division, was name general manag of the vidal sassoon line. 
 in the 1986 fourth quarter, du pont canada, 73%-own by du pont co. of wilmington, del., earn 28.2 million dollars, or 88 cent a share, after a 13.8 million-dollar gain from the sale of a business.du pont and it canadian unit have agre to sell the explos line to cic canadian invest capit ltd., a toronto financi invest and hold company. 
 today, two west german publish want to re-creat baedek past glories.volkmar mair, owner of a stuttgart publish house, and florian langenscheidt, scion of a munich publish empire, recent agre to merg their various right to the baedek name in hope of engin a major comeback for the vener guidebook line. 
 guid in italian and hebrew are on the way.in the u.s., distributor simon & schuster inc. say baedek is it second bestsel line after arthur frommer guidebooks. 
 the invest group was led by leach mcmick & co., a san francisco invest bank firm.th sale is part of alli continu program to concentr on it aerospace, automot product and engin materi lines, a spokesman said. 
 some dealer and market analyst fear the boom may wane becaus current owner are start to have families, and thus are look for bigger vehicles.both gm and ford motor co., which make the bronco line, will address that problem by introduc four-door compact by 1991. 
 mannesmann said group profit also declin in the half, but it didn't provid figures.th compani cite sluggish demand for capit good in west germany, continu loss in it steelpip line and deterior condit at it big brazilian unit. 
 while the compani so domin the field that it routin can pick and choos from the best comput engin and technicians, mr. chen exit will sting.cray bestsel x-mp line was primarili a chen product. 
 he appar "pull an esmark" again.som of mr. kelli doubters, includ a few beatric executives, worri that he would be forc to part first with the compani crown jewels, it domest food lines, at fire-sal price to meet borrow agreements. 
 american home product corp., seek to shore up it contraceptive-product line in the face of generic competition, agre to acquir vli corp. for $7 a share, or about $86 million. 
 woolworth has sever specialti footwear unit includ the foot locker, ladi foot locker, and the athlet shoe factory.mr. bryant said client have also ask him whether some apparel compani might have korea-rel problem because, for example, they might have arrang to produc an entir line in that country. 
 rick anguilla, editor of toy and hobbi world, said korean contractor make mani of the "plush" categori of toys, such as stuf animals.toy compani with big "plush" line includ hasbro, russ berrie, coleco, viewmast ideal group and tonka.coleco has a hot toy base on the "alf" tv show, viewmast has a new line of "michael jackson pets," and tonka sell "pound puppies," mr. anguilla noted. 
 those two account for "a fair minor percentage" of sale and, in ani case, are "run full steam, no problems," the spokesman added.limit inc., a high-growth specialti retail known for design and subcontract it own apparel lines, has been tri to boost the number of it u.s. contractor in respons to the fall dollar and rise import restrictions. 
 american home plan to buy vli, a maker of contracept products, in an attempt to bolster it line in the face of generic competition. 
 but it'll let them establish beachhead in some dec and ibm accounts."th unisi sourc said the machines, to be call the a1, the a4 and the a6, will be market against the model 20, 40 and 60 respect of ibm new 9370 line, join the competit for small-busi account and for sale to depart in larg companies. 
 but digit also has come up with techniqu of it own.decworld came about becaus of concern that salespeopl didn't know how extens the compani comput line was. 
 accord to those familiar with the 6386 machine, it will be abl to run applic program that use the unix oper system, develop by at&t, concurr with softwar run on ms-dos, the microsoft corp. oper system popular by intern busi machin corp.th new system will also run softwar base on the new os/2 oper standard for ibm new line of person computers. 
 accordingly, unilev recent paid $3.1 billion for chesebrough-pond inc. -- the largest acquisit in it histori -- in hope that a home-grown american compani would help restor it stand in the u.s. personal-product business.chesebrough-pond doubl the size of unilev u.s. personal-product line to $700 million in annual sales. 
 unilev is still someth of a trendsett in europe.for european who are switch from perfum to deodorant, unilev develop a new line of strong-smel "deo-cologne" sprays. 
 in addit to stroke customers, digit is expect to introduc sever new, low-end product that are three time more power than their predecessor but won't cost digit ani more to build.and it will reinforc it messag that it line of vax comput all run the same softwar and can easili communic as a result. 
 earli this year, analyst fear that intern busi machin increas competit could blunt digit success.ibm introduc it 9370 line of computers, which was intern dub "the vax killer," and it start promis improv comput communic and low price department comput -- the same attribut that digit boasts. 
 moreover, digit has continu to sell equip in financi and insur market that were tradit ibm bailiwick.mr. schulman say product introduc at decworld will give digit an opportun to counterattack against the 9370 line. 
 proceed to the compani will be use for payment of bank debt, work capital, plant and equip expenditur and other general purposes.bas in conshohocken, pa., the compani make and servic a line of medic ultrasound equipment. 
 mr. gidwitz estim sale for the quarter, end may 31, rose 15% from $86.8 million a year earlier.h ad that cost involv in promot the new helen curti salon select line are like to caus a second-quart loss. 
 sourc put the price at $125 million to $150 million.at the same time, revlon agre to sell bain de soleil, one of the acquir lines, to cincinnati-bas procter & gambl co. richardson-vick subsidiary. 
 the compani involv declin to disclos price on the transactions, which have been rumor for some time.revlon purchas includ the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff cosmet lines, sold in depart stores; mass-market line as such as jean nate and enjoli, and dynasti fragrances. 
 revlon purchas includ the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff cosmet lines, sold in depart stores; mass-market line as such as jean nate and enjoli, and dynasti fragrances.revlon vice chairman howard gitti said bain de soleil, a sun-car line, would be sold becaus "we are develop our own sun-car lines, begin with ultima ii. 
 schering-plough corp. copperton has about 30% of the market while bain de soleil has about 15%.other richardson-vick line includ the vick brands, sinex and oil of olay. 
 he veri persistent."mr. perelman has argu that combin revlon cosmet product with gillett personal-car and razor line would creat one of the world most formid consumer-product companies. 
 they hope the new offer will help lure busi peopl with more than mundan tast in food back to the supermarket."thi is for consum who are too tire to cook and too tire to go out -- or who have no time for either -- but still want a nice dinner," say richard g. powers, the busi unit manag of general food premium culinova line. 
 he figur that a sara lee refriger dinner for two, includ a side dish and dessert, would run about $14.and sara lee line is among the least expensive. 
 for manufacturers, the biggest challeng is cope with the short shelf life of refriger products."no nation food processor yet has introduc a success line of new refriger entre and a lot of money has been spent," say john luther, a market corpor of america official.last month, in fact, campbel soup withdrew it fresh chef line of refriger soups, sauc and salad from nation distribution. 
 anoth is what he term a "sell-out strategy," make sure product are sold by a certain date through coupon and other inducements.(us the lesson learn from fresh chef and an earlier group of refriger entre that never emerg from test market, campbel say it now is test a new line of refriger entre and side dishes). 
 to prolong shelf life of their products, some manufactur have resort to novel strategies.sara lee emmber brand is roll out a complet refriger line call tonight choice. 
 so, manhattan toy, with $5 million in annual sales, has su the $1 billion gerber product co., alleg gerber has infring manhattan toy copyrights.aft his compani began sell it dinosaur in 1984 through retail such as neiman marcus, bloomingdal and f.a.o. schwarz, mr. goldwyn says, gerber launch a line of inexpens imitations. 
 last month, the close held american natur beverag corp. of new york got anheuser-busch cos. of st. loui to chang the logo on it zeltzer seltzer soft drink, which american natur claim was "confus similar" to packag for it soho natur soda.and last november, blue mountain art inc. of boulder, colo., won an injunct bar hallmark card inc. of kansa city, mo., from distribut a line of greet card blue mountain alleg were copi from it designs. 
 as a result, mr. jager says, "a small busi can look at a situat and say, not onli is the climat more favor for me to take on a big infringer, but the chanc for a higher return are greater than they use to be.'"in it suit, manhattan toy doesn't ask for specif damages, onli an amount equal to the profit gerber has made on it dinosaur line. 
 at beecham, he had been respons for market such consum brand as aqua-fresh toothpaste, sucret throat lozeng and calgon bath products.quak state, maker of the nation best-sel motor oil, turn to mr. snell in an effort to coordin market of an unwieldi 6,000 product cut across 12 compani lines. 
 neither compani would confirm or deni mount specul that revlon, the close held cosmet giant, would pay $150 million or more in the transaction.it is understood that the purchas may includ the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff brands, consid prestig cosmet lines, as well as mass-market line such as bain de soleil, jean nate, enjoli and the dynasti fragrances. 
 sinc mr. perelman acquir control of revlon in novemb 1985, he has shed most of the compani health care divis while seek to bolster the beauti business.last decemb he purchas max factor inc., which includ the halston and almay lines, for $345 million. 
 earlier this year he bought the u.s. busi of germain monteil cosmetiqu corp. for about $10 million from beecham group plc, the london-bas pharmaceut concern.lin includ dian von furstenberg fragranc and lancast skincar products. 
 in the year-earli quarter, the maker of personal-groom product earn $1.1 million, or 18 cent a share, on sale of $30.9 million.th compani said the earn declin result chiefli from lower-than-expect volum for it consum product divis new textra line of care products. 
 sinc be taken privat in april 1986 in a $6.2 billion leverag buyout, beatric has rapid reduc it debt by sell various units.last month, it said it plan an initi public offer for it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 kid stuff: retail expand to cash in on demograph trends.gymbore corp., a $10 million-a-year busi built on tot exercis classes, launch a chain of store with it own line of cloth and toys; 15 store are to be open by year end.conran's, new york, expand it children furnitur lines, while carter hawley hale broadway chain upgrad it offer to includ babi dior, esprit and guess clothes. 
 the factori of the futur turn out a new line of midsiz car for general motor corp. this fall won't be so futurist after all. 
 in addition, the fiscal stimulus from the reagan presid record budget deficit has forc the fed to maintain a firmer polici than it might otherwis have done.meanwhile, increas foreign competition, domest deregulation, and the wave of merger and consolid sweep corpor america have push compani to lay off workers, shed unprofit lines, adopt closer relationship with supplier and tighten control over inventories. 
 fra program manag the data base of a museum members, donors, and prospect donors, as well as generat standard paperwork such as membership-renew remind and year-end report for donor for tax purposes.th american feder of the arts, an associ of art museums, has been work with a softwar consultant, the williamson group, for sever year and offer a line of softwar design especi for art museums. 
 today wardrob for mani men is tripl layered: suit for work, activewear for sport and trendi sport coats, shirt and slack for entertaining.and it the two leisur line that have surg sales. 
 despit the strength of sportswear in the $27 billion menswear market, manufactur and retail see consider room for growth.design such as ralph lauren, calvin klein and liz claiborne, who introduc a new sportswear line for men two year ago, are avid seek the new male customer. 
 design and retailers, of course, still count on women, who long have purchas at least half of all men clothing.liz claiborne, calvin klein and other are bet that femal customers, loyal to their womenswear lines, will also buy their new menswear line for husband and others. 
 for the current fiscal year, mr. o'reilli said analyst estim net of $2.85 a share "seem reasonable."th execut said the fiscal 1987 market budget of about $383 million will be increas by about 15% in fiscal 1988, with most of the spend to be on such line as weight watchers, chico-san rice cakes, yogurt and near east food -- a maker of flavor rice products. 
 they'r packag it as the don kelli portfolio instead of as an ongo company."e-ii will includ the non-food busi bci hasn't alreadi sold plus some smaller specialty-food lines. 
 montgomeri ward & co. 2.5% rise in same-stor sale was the slowest growth rate for the mobil corp. unit sinc fall.sal were hurt by the chain recent move out of the hardwar and the lawn and garden lines, which typic are big seller in may. 
 digit equip corp. and cray research inc., as expected, said they will joint market and develop product to link their line of computers. 
 the compani has said it intend to emphas it fragranc business.it has cut price on some cosmet line 50% and may sell the lines. 
 nevertheless, the compani call the five busi to be sold "sound businesses" that are experienc an earn improv "with the upturn in the electron market."th announc follow a major restructur program trw began in late 1985 that involv sell busi -- main aircraft part and industri product -- with annual sale of about $800 million, prune back remain line to their most profit product and a general cost-reduct effort. 
 still, troubl continu to be more common than triumph for compani test video catalog -- even when the video itself is well done.murjani intern ltd. test a video catalog last year for it coca-cola cloth line. 
 glenview, ill.-bas kraft long has want to expand in frozen foods, the fastest-grow packaged-food area right now.th compani tri a line of frozen-chees dinner that it quiet fold last year. 
 besid the all american gourmet acquisition, kraft is tri again internally.it current is test a line of frozen entre that includ lasagna and sever meat dishes. 
 the acquisit would be kraft fourth in the frozen-food busi in the past three years.and last week it agre to acquir sever of chicago-bas quaker oat co. food line for $235 million. 
 he also said the compani is consid action to reduc interest and dividend expens start in the second half.mattel has said that substanti lower domest demand start last year for it master of the univers and rainbow brite line of toy are among the main factor troubl the company. 
 in mr. welch view, consum electron main job is to give ge greater buy clout for it other busi in the pacif rim by ad to the volum of compon purchas there.despit the fact that mr. welch regard consum electron as someth of an albatross, secur analyst say that even if ge eventu exit tv-set manufacturing, it will continu to market consum electron becaus of the valuabl ge brand recognit that benefit more profit consum lines, such as light bulb and major appliances. 
 he has primarili focus the busi on the side of the softwar market call system utilities, which allow data-process center to manag their oper more efficiently.comput associ also has broaden it line of busi software, which now includ spreadsheet and word-processor programs. 
 mattel will introduc captain power in septemb in 86 u.s. televis market and 17 foreign countries.th spokesman said mattel is be "veri cautious" about not repeat mistak it made sever year ago when it intellivis game machin line and other electron product encount an extrem competit environ and creat huge loss for the company. 
 "that experi is memorable," the spokesman said, ad that the new line are less involv with educ electron and more toy and game related.thoma r. kully, a secur analyst with the chicago firm of william blair & co., said he didn't believ mattel would make the same error made with the now-discontinu intellivis line. 
 the xerox copier, for example, is now part of an integr office-inform system that process document from creation to transmission, includ storag and retriev as well as reproduction.no compani can cover the complet line competit without help from other companies. 
 the jury, in feder court in illinois, award the damag to georgia roulo, a former licensor of the toy, trinket and greet card firm.ms. roulo su russ berri in 1982, contend that the compani line of "touch you" greet card infring on the "feel sensitive" card she design for russ berri to sell from 1978 through 1980. 
 in do so, yves saint laurent regain control of the perfum that bear it name.revillon, the fur-coat maker in the cora group, took over karl lagerfeld kl label to launch an up-market ready-to-wear line of women clothing. 
 just this month, the famili that run martel & cie. agre to sell control of the cognac compani to seagram co. of canada.although industri analyst say a recess would hurt lesser-known brand and expens item such as cars, fur and jewelry, most french luxury-good compani don't expect demand for their most prestigi line to be affected. 
 "as long as i'm around," mr. schneider vows, "we won't go on the stock market."and mr. schneider also want to prevent the davidoff line of cigar from becom mass consum items. 
 susi peterson, an analyst with first boston corp., recent said that computervis was among the compani that prime might tri to acquire, though she thought other candid were more likely.prime, which had net incom of $46.9 million, or 97 cent a share, and revenu of $860.2 million last year, is among the smallest comput compani that make a broad line of comput systems. 
 tele-communications, a cabl televis concern, acquir heritag communic in august and immedi sold the broadcast properties.heritag also said in octob that it had retain first boston corp. to help shed the communications-product lines. 
 then some japanes chocol technician reverse-engin the m&m.lott k.k., a lead confectionari compani in japan, came out in april with a line of "new-typ chocolate" that look suspici like the mar product. 
 panason co. is a divis of it american subsidiary.along with make the kodak batteries, the new compani will make a separate, compet line of consum alkalin batteri to be market under the panason brand name. 
 the plant, which may be locat in the sunbelt, is expect to produc sever hundr million batteri a year begin in 1989.kodak enter the batteri market last year with two line of batteries: it alkalin supralif batteri made accord to kodak specif by matsushita in japan and it 9-volt lithium batteri made by kodak ultra technolog unit in newark, n.y. 
 wow said it will continu to develop new toys, and will unveil it 1988 product at the new york toy fair in february.th spokeswoman wouldn't discuss the plan products, but said wow plan to broaden it line by offer more lower-pr toys. 
 this year, grey work for revlon was larg limit to a singl televis advertis for flex, a hair care product.grey had been assign to work on an ad campaign for a new hair care line that revlon plan to introduc next year. 
 the move reflect american home longstand strategi of rapid growth.bi acquir robins, american home would add strong consum brand to it own healthi over-the-count line and beef up it proprietari drug research, which has been barren in recent years. 
 sale of the regal -- the first of the so-cal "gm-10" car -- more than doubl to 2,898 from a year earlier.that an earli indic of how well custom are receiv the new line of midsized, front-wheel-dr car that gm hope will help revers it market share decline. 
 altern card -- now the industri hottest seller and still grow -- repres between 17% and 22% of all card sold.th big three are make their gain in the altern card market larg at the expens of tini competitors, who were success earli on in offer such lines. 
 the altern card appeal larg to babi boomers; the compani say mani young adult enjoy send humor card to friend for no particular occas or holiday, but just to stay in touch.mani of the altern line also are gear toward women, who buy 90% of all cards.gibson, for example, offer a line call women writes. 
 of the major companies, hallmark generat the most controversi with it alternative-card entry.in the largest rollout of new card in the compani history, it brought out the "shoebox" line, aim main at women, and "person touch," a line of sentiment cards. 
 "we'r not ad a lot of mouth to feed," say paul shain, an analyst at dain bosworth inc.h say those battl for "share of stomach" includ salad bars, in-stor delicatessen and a buffet line of home-deliveri food services. 
 "the past few month have been a difficult period for the company," mr. kingsborough said."nonetheless, we are encourag by retail and consum reaction to both our continu line and to the new product we introduc for this christma season. 
 group execut are expect to identifi competitor that simon & schuster can acquir to broaden it market share.sinc april, for example, the compani bought two more document search firms, a line of train materi for comput softwar and a british profession publisher. 
 robin profit over-the-count brand would be the primari attract for ani acquirer.analyst estim that the consum line account for almost 50% of robin sale and possibl as much as 60% of profit. 
 the agreement is subject to regulatori and financ approvals.executone, base in norcross, ga., market and servic a line of busi telephon systems. 
 expert estim the purchas price at one billion markka ($248.5 million).th transact includ sel television-tub and loudspeak lines, the compani said. 
 chrysler acquisit last summer of american motor corp. also contribut to the chang in plan for jefferson avenue, a compani spokesman said.originally, chrysler plan to replac the current k-car line at jefferson with anoth model, and later shift the plant to light truck production, the spokesman said. 
 those are dictat by the compani buyers, who also adjust their plan as the season progresses.th day after thanksgiving, for instance, the buyer order an emerg markdown of 40% on a line of women sportswear. 
 pennwalt corp. said it acquir a line of fungicides, insecticid and herbicid and their relat manufactur and distribut facil from le raffineri de soufr reunies, marseille, france. 
 essex also plan to sell it baltimor phosgen chemic plant; the spokesman said the compani hasn't yet found a buyer.essex also said it plan to sell write off or write down certain ventur capit lines. 
 richard laster, dna presid and chief execut officer, attribut most of the 1987 loss to a decis this year by kraft inc., glenview, ill., to withdraw from a nation product launch.dna is negoti with two or three parti for a partnership to replac kraft for the market of it vegisnax line of special bred carrot and celery. 
 digit is like to promot it for compani that link mani comput user to a central database, one of the fastest grow applic for big computers.th announc of a more power mainfram comput in digit vax line, has been wide expected, but maynard, mass.-bas digit hadn't given ani detail until william demmer, a vice president, mention it last week at a user group meet in california. 
 the u.s. estim that the four airbus countri have pour $10 billion into the consortium sinc it was start 17 year ago.washington say they are plan to spend an addit $3.2 billion on two new aircraft line airbus plan to produce. 
 man and hoesch ad 2.50 each to 129 and 97.50, respectively.but kloeckner humboldt-deutz, reel from heavi loss in it agricultur machineri lines, fell 2 to 79. 
 in composit trade on the new york stock exchange, mattel close yesterday at $7.875 a share, up 25 cents.a mattel spokesman said the compani was concern about the lacklust u.s. sale of most product except the "barbie" doll line. 
 alfr h. hunt iii, presid of ifr system inc., a wichita, kan.-bas produc of test equip that is 84% own by regency, was name to fill mr. boon vacanc on the board.th compani said it intend to sell it consum product line so it can concentr on busi that provid the most potenti for "long-term growth and profitability." 
 the compani said it intend to sell it consum product line so it can concentr on busi that provid the most potenti for "long-term growth and profitability."reg said it will tri to sell it line of scanners, inform radio products, and marin radios, which togeth generat about 24% of the compani $75 million in sale for the fiscal year end june 30. 
 the compani will begin share model by late 1989 at the earliest but will sell car under separ identities.th ventur will make two car line develop by toyota and one by gm. troubl in australia prompt gm last year to restructur holden's. 
 australia minist for industry, john button, prais the gm-toyota announc as "a major step in make the australian motor industri intern competitive."attempt to revit it troubl auto industry, the australian govern three year ago said it want to cut by 1992 the number of car line made there to about six from 13, and the number of car manufactur to three from five. 
 for all of 1986, insilco earn $33.6 million, or $1.58 a share, on sale of $745.1 million.a spokesman said analysts, holder and the rate compani have been urg insilco to quit the hous lines, which employ about 600 people. 
 the compani had taken charg in 1985 and 1986 against the hous business, the spokesman said.insilco see limit and difficult growth prospect for the lines, he said, and would have had to put much more cash into it to keep it going. 
 the spokesman said that insilco continu to look at acquisit that complement it continu busi but that it has no plan for ani more divestitures.insilco said it plan to continu run the hous busi for exist custom but will treat the line as discontinu oper in financi reports. 
 the industry, suffer from a drought of new product for more than a year, is still grope for a major crowd-drawer.in a rush to imit the strong sellers, manufactur have clutter the major categori -- particular the "action toy" line that featur such item as g.i. joe, transform and silverhawks. 
 sale of video games, preschool toys, board game and basic toy have been brisk through most of the year, and mani of these are expect to continu sell well.som analysts, moreover, say share of a few compani offer basic lines, such as hasbro and tyco toys, may actual be buy for 1988. 
 tyco, one of the few toy maker due to post a profit this year, will increas earn to about $1.65 a share next year from $1.48 this year, mr. kulli predicts.tyco tradit has been strong in basic toy such as electr train and has done particular well with a line of radio-oper car this year. 
 what more, investor for the bass group, who rais their macmillan stake to 9% earlier this year, appear to show particular interest in publishing.but some of bell & howel line could be a difficult fit if the publish compani were combined. 
 the rate concern had place mca on it creditwatch list in octob after the compani author buy back as mani as 10 million of it common shares.s&p said that while mca theater and televis entertain busi remain strong and it record and book line have perform well, "financi risk has risen in recent years, suggest an increas emphasi by manag on sharehold values." 
 restaur and supermarket increas woo shopper with a wide array of refriger and hot, prepar dishes."consum realiz that takeout is no longer so expens relat to the premium frozen dinner market," say charl bowen, a group vice presid at general food corp., which has decid against expand it premium frozen line call fresh creation until it see where the market is going. 
 cater to this attitud has spell success for some budget-mind brands.most notably, all american gourmet co. budget gourmet line, which typic offer product cost less than $2, has seen it share of the entre market rise to 15% sinc it nation rollout in 1985. 
 the unit of swiss-bas nestl s.a. also has slash price on it newli restag dinner suprem brand and is offer 30% to 40% more cents-off coupon than last year on all it frozen dinner products.not to be outdone, campbel has withdrawn it upscal l'orient line of szechuan chines meal from the market entirely. 
 but "on a veri small segment of the popul was will to pay for that level of authenticity," acknowledg robert bernstock, campbel general manag of premium meals.campbel has also begun to upgrad it le menu line. 
 pepper steak marin in ($11 a gallon) rice wine import from japan.today, the most expens le menu carri a suggest retail price tag of $3.89 compar with $4.99 when the line was introduc in 1984. 
 wooden trains, price at $15 to $100, wooden construct sets, for $12 to $25, and wooden doll houses, for $95 to $250, all are hot item at john davy, a specialti toy store in alexandria, va.at compet granni place in alexandria, playmobil products, a line of plastic pre-school toy from west germani rang in price from $2.60 to over $100, "are walk out the door," say owner rodger wall. 
 the answer lie insid it sprawl assembl plant on the outskirt of munich.there, on the second floor, worker buzz about like honeybees, assembl some 1,500 engin a day for bmw 300 seri automobiles, it least expens line. 
 ken butterworth, chairman and chief execut officer, said the compani expect quarter sale to exceed $100 million compar with $81 million.mr. butterworth said the compani line are strong both in the u.s. and internationally. 
 competit for counter space at depart store is intense.neiman-marcus, the 22-store specialti retailer, say that it customarili drop a "half a dozen" slow-mov cosmet or fragranc line each year. 
 celesti seasonings, a boulder, colo., maker of 35 differ kind of specialti teas, was acquir by kraft, a glenview, ill., maker of food products, in 1984.kraft decid to sell celesti season in part of a broad review of core lines. 
 the teas, sold in high decor box with philosph quot print on them, have name like red zinger, morn thunder and mandarin orang spice.th compani had grown consider in the past three years, ad sever new tea lines, but the relaxed, inform atmospher has been maintained, the kraft spokeswoman said. 
 when less establish design have succumb to aids, their cloth have die with them.such bud talent as karl davis, who creat a line of classic women clothing, and mark pennywell, known for his origin wed gowns, didn't employ a staff of assist design who might have continu produc their styles. 
 mani would consid the braun studio in kronberg, west germany, to be the quintessenti purveyor of "eurodesign."but braun is a unit of gillett co., in boston, and the braun line contain sever item that were first design for gillett by mr. cousins, who has long been it consultant. 
 the possibl import are further evid of the increas buy power of the japanes yen, and part of an effort to expand isuzu product line, a gm spokesman said.gm own 42.4% of isuzu, which make three line of subcompact passeng cars. 
 sirjang lal tandon, chairman of tandon, said tandon decid to sell it winchest disk drive oper to "concentr all our resourc on our person comput and subsystem product lines."th compani comput and subsystem line are expect to account for about 85% of it revenu in the fourth quarter. 
 system industri said el segundo, calif.-bas imperi technolog has about 50 employe and had revenu of about $10 million in the fiscal year end june 30.imperi make a solid state disk memori devic that system industri call "a logic extension" of it data storag line. 
 sinc last friday, outboard stock has risen more than three points.genmar boat line includ hattera yachts, wellcraft power boat and larson and lund fish boats. 
 the premier is the first car for the jeep/eagl divis follow the purchas of amc last summer.jeep is a solid success franchis that appeal to the kind of buyer chrysler wants, but the eagl car line is a decid weak sister. 
 broadway jeep/eagl in denver, colo., for example, sell about 3,000 new jeep a year, but less than 300 cars."w don't realli have much of a car line anymore," lament steve segal, the dealership general manager. 
 indeed, jeep custom have long disdain the car offer by amc and regi national des usin renault, the french auto maker that own more than 40% of amc befor the chrysler purchase.now the eagl car line consist main of leftov renault model and the discontinu amc eagl four-wheel-dr car. 
 chrysler also decid not to go ahead with plan for a coup version, in part becaus the coupe, without a lot of work, wouldn't have met the standard chrysler has set for the division, compani offici said.chrysl also has sacrif some profit for more volum with premier $12,474 to $14,079 price range, which joseph e. cappy, group vice presid of jeep/eagl marketing, said is aim right at the heart of ford taurus line. 
 he doe his own write in one room and tend to black lizard busi in the other.th line has done so well that this year mr. elli sold off his print business, includ the presses, and becam a full-tim publisher. 
 the compani insist the chang wasn't relat to an 81% drop in third-quart profit, which fell to $1.5 million, or 14 cent a share, from $8 million, or $1.03 a share, a year earlier.th poor result were attribut to higher cotton price and cost associ with the introduct of a new line of stain-resist carpet. 
 sale rose 16% to $8.47 billion from $7.31 billion.american brand best-known line are it cigarett brands, includ pall mall, tareyton and lucki strike. 
 the compani also own such major liquor brand as jim beam, old grand-dad and old crow.oth line includ swinglin offic products, case cutlery, titleist and foot-joy golf item and master locks. 
 he was brought back as beatric chairman when it was acquir by kohlberg kravi robert & co. last year in a $6.2 billion leverag buy-out.in july, mr. kelli took beatric non-food busi and some of it smaller special food line public as e-ii hold inc. 
 it array of consum product is compat with e-ii lineup, which includ samsonit luggag and stiffel lamps.moreover, mani american brand lines, such as master lock and case cutlery, fit his strategi of buy mundan busi that are consid by analyst to be undervalu and undermanaged. 
 he more inclin to buy and sell compani than to run them for veri long.although analyst don't think he particular interest in cigarett or liquor lines, he familiar with the distribut and market aspect of such retail businesses; thus he might be adept at sell those off separately. 
 in the nine months, earn fell 49% to $41.4 million, or 71 cent a share, on a 1.9% drop in revenue, to $966.7 million, from a year earlier.thi year result reflect the general soft in the toy industry, as well as disappoint sale for hasbro from sever new product -- includ air raiders, battl beast and visionari in the boy action line; and jem in the girl doll category, mr. hassenfeld said. 
 sure noth so becom the black lizard line of fiction as it home. 
 vodavi technolog corp. said it sign a $40 million, four-year contract with ctg inc. to suppli an expand line of telephon system and other products. 
 medchem product inc. said it sign a letter of intent to purchas for $31 million a line of surgic product use in stop bleeding. 
 warnaco inc. said it is in the final stage of negoti with french fashion design emanuel ungaro for licens right to his line of intim apparel. 
 the cereal boxes, which includ red and green crunch berries, show cap'n crunch dress as santa claus.scott paper co. decid to roll out a line of red and green paper towel this year after the compani research found that 80% of consum would be apt to buy such a product. 
 mr. wilcox is director of design research center, a divis of herbst, lazar, roger & bell, a chicago design firm.in redesign a line of telephon memo book for averi intern aigner division, mr. wilcox peer over secretari shoulder and studi copi in filled-in form books. 
 gould was suspend from bid on govern job becaus of alleg improprieti in set prices.th move by the gsa come as gould is tri to sell it defens lines. 
 looart own current inc., a major market of greet card and stationeri base in colorado springs, colo., that has annual sale of more than $125 million, primerica said.th sale is part of primerica plan, announc in august, to sell all it mail-ord line in order to reduc debt on it $750 million purchas of smith barney inc. 
 lsi logic corp., a milpitas, calif.-bas semiconductor concern, said it enter into a long-term agreement with close held mip comput system to manufactur and market mip line of 32-bit microprocessors, includ reduced-instruction-set computing, or risc, chips. 
 "it great styling, price right, and it the best engin car buick has ever given us."that car is the first in a seri of gm-10 products, a new $5 billion line of mid-siz car that will come out over the next two years. 
 general motor corp. buick divis formal introduc the first of gm crucial new line of midsiz cars, and predict the model will revers the divis two-year slide in sales. 
 the new regal is the first product of the $5 billion project code-nam "gm-10."the gm-10 line is aim at regain sale that gm has lost in it bread-and-butt market: midsiz car aim at upper-middle-class americans. 
 he and other buick officials, however, said consum incent will continue."given the suppli and demand situation," mr. mertz said, refer to the increas industri overcapac and flat demand, "some form of incent activ will continue, but not on everi car line." 
 gm buick divis introduc the first of the auto maker crucial new line of midsiz cars. 
 data general corp. introduc a new comput system that reduc the base price for it line of 32-bit superminicomputers. 
 "we want an honest reaction" from consumers, she now explains.but ms. georg end the mysteri recent by offici unveil her chicken by georg line at a parti with all the trimmings. 
 it spark the current disput this summer by question a custom servic rule that it board fell within the tariff reach.th washington comput trade group said it understand intern busi machin corp. was also affect by the new tariffs, becaus it buy board for it new person system/2 line of pcs from matsushita electr industri co. of japan. 
 packag corp., which own and oper ekco packaging, said it will manag the kaiser facil as part of it dispos packag group.kaisertech, a hold company, call the sale part of it plan to focus on line that offer "signific competit advantage." 
 gillett recent acquir a major interest in anoth french manufactur of expens pens, waterman s.a.that acquisit is intend to broaden gillett paperm pen line to includ pen in the $60 to $80 range, gillett offici said. 
 storag technolog corp. ad two new storag system to it line of disk drive for mainfram computers. 
 toyota is enter the u.s. luxuri car market by sell an upscal car line through a new dealer network. 
 intern busi machin corp. is unleash an aggress legal campaign to protect it new line of person comput from clones. 
 outsid the courtroom, ibm is issu strong warn that rival won't be abl to build a legal clone of it newest pcs unless they get patent licens from ibm -- a requir that could present a new barrier to enter the clone market.big blue alreadi has file two unusu broad lawsuit against alleg infring of the trademark for it four-month-old pc line, call the person system/2. 
 such a drop, in ibm most visibl consum market, would stand as one of ibm most rankl public-imag setbacks.in it first famili of pcs, ibm specif use wide avail part and an "open" design that would let independ compani make software, accessori and even full comput that compet with the ibm line. 
 "you might even look at it as an insur policy," he says.chip & technologies, base in milpitas, calif., make wide use microchip set for clone makers, design to imit the inner work of ibm old pc line. 
 toyota motor corp. said it will enter the increas crowd u.s. luxury-car market by sell a line of upscal car through a new toyota dealer network call lexus. 
 toyota motor corp. said it will enter the increas crowd u.s. luxury-car market by sell a line of upscal car through a new toyota dealer network call lexus.th auto maker, which said it will introduc the car in late 1989 as 1990 models, becom the third japanes auto maker to opt for a so-cal "second channel" of dealer to highlight a new line of cars. 
 honda motor co. introduc it legend and integra luxuri car in the u.s. in 1986 through a new dealer network call acura.and just last month, nissan motor corp. announc plan for a new line of upscal car that, start in 1989, it will market under the new infin label. 
 competit has becom so heat that bmw of north america inc., a unit of bayerisch motoren werk ag, and mercedes-benz of north america inc., a unit of daimler-benz ag, recent announc sale incent to help trim excess inventori -- a rare move for the two west german luxury-car makers.toyota hope it upscal line will help it hang on to current custom who have had to look elsewher when trade up to luxuri cars, and say it isn't worri about the crowd market. 
 it said the dealers, who will be pick from insid and outsid toyota current rank of 1,085 u.s. dealers, will be situat in the top 50 market in the u.s. -- market that can sustain sale of luxuri car -- and will have to demonstr a record of custom satisfaction.th auto maker plan to requir this first group of dealer to have facil for the lexus car total separ from their current car lines. 
 that strategi is common for auto maker set up separ dealer network and is meant, among other things, to make buyer of the upscal car feel special and to underscor the exclus ambianc of the luxuri market.but some dealer have voic skeptic about the practice, note that sale of new luxury-car line may not be big enough to support the expens -- often million of dollar -- of separ facilities. 
 indeed, toyota said it expect to sell onli 30,000 of the vehicl in the first model year.asid from hang on to current customers, the lexus luxuri line could help boost toyota earnings, if it prove popular. 
 the japanes suppli capit and technolog and the american suppli manag and marketing.four small, close held firms, an american, a dutch, a german and a japanes -- each a leader in one narrow line of chemic solvent -- have merg their separ research lab with the lab of an american univers with expertis in the solvent field. 
 onli by band togeth do they have the $200 million in sale need to support a decent research budget in a rapid chang technology.and then there is the belgian produc of process meat -- the largest produc in it specialti line within the common market but still with sale of onli about $60 million a year. 
 u.s. export drop like a stone in the year of the overvalu dollar and import soared; not one major american industri could maintain it export in the face of a currenc fluctuat of almost 50%.yet onli in steel, automobiles, consum electronics, machin tool and a few semiconductor line did the world share of american product go down at all. 
 dover corp., new york, acquir the duncan industri parking-met unit of rymer co. for $29 million.th acquisit add rymer onli nonfood oper to dover line of industri parts. 
 "they'v had tremend market respons for the workstat products," he said.stephen k. smith, comput analyst with painewebb inc., caution that hewlett-packard profit margin fell 1% in the quarter to 7.2%, a sign that brisk demand for the compani product may not be concentr in it more profit lines. 
 increasingly, such product are be made for appl comput inc. macintosh.although add-on aren't yet avail to match the featur of ibm new person system/2 line, such featur as the improv graphic probabl will be mimick soon. 
 some of the add-ons, however, are like to be expensive.still, as consum tri to decid whether to spend $5,000 or more for the most power of ibm new ps/2 line, interest in the aftermarket is like to grow. 
 but michael kennedy, a food analyst at id financi services, believ the burger develop is emblemat of hormel innovations.mr. ramey is more excit about the top shelf line, which packag microwav meat entre in multilay plastic that act like a can. 
 mr. mcmillin note hormel is sell at 19 time his estim of $1.50 for next year earnings, compar with a multipl of about 16 for all food stocks.lik ani other high-multipl stock that includ a big bet on some futur line, hormel carri the risk that this profus of new product will fall flat. 
 mr. ramey say the biggest risk is that hormel won't have enough advertis dollar to put behind it new ideas.but he believ the can meat lines, have serv as a cash cow to financ product development, can support those outlay as well. 
 perkin-elm share close yesterday at $38, up $1.25, in new york stock exchang composit trading.in the past two fiscal years, perkin-elm has taken various charges, though much smaller, as it undertook to refocus the chip equip line and gird for what mani in the industri say is a rebound semiconductor market. 
 revlon is sell the two vision-car busi for more than twice their annual sales; such busi typic fetch the equival of 1.5 time annual sales, accord to ms. hall of smith barney.th sale of the vision-car line will leav revlon focus on it cosmet business, which analyst expect to have 1987 sale of about $1.7 billion, compar with $1.15 billion last year. 
 commodor task to restructur it u.s. oper is formidable.th compani vener model 64 comput is in the final year of it life cycl and it person comput line is up against new product from comput giants, includ intern busi machin corp., appl comput inc. and tandi corp. 
 the compani vener model 64 comput is in the final year of it life cycl and it person comput line is up against new product from comput giants, includ intern busi machin corp., appl comput inc. and tandi corp.meanwhile, commodor is bank much of the compani growth on it technolog impress amiga comput line, which also is face with numer competit obstacl in the u.s. 
 sale rose 16% to $1.4 billion from $1.21 billion.th framingham, mass.-bas discount store oper has had weak result from it larg discount depart store oper in recent period becaus of strong competit and weak in it apparel lines. 
 the japan defens agenc allow vendor to earn less than 5%, but that is a godsend for kawasaki heavi industri ltd.the compani other manufactur lines, such as shipbuilding, are awash in deficits. 
 cost-control measur have improv margins, he added, saying, "we'r well-posit to be a lot more competitive."about 75% of anticip sale this year are expect to be to new customers, mani of them cardiologist and internists, as the compani introduc a line of desktop unit to help detect heart and lung disease. 
 although a manag chang at simac plant in gessate, italy, has meant interrupt shipment of it pastamat to the u.s., mr. carter is await a "new and improved" version in time for this year christma sell season.even so, his heart is realli in a new line of toasters. 
 for the second time in less than two months, volkswagen u.s. inc., troy, mich., said it will boost suggest retail price of it entry-level fox line. 
 on juli 1, the compani ad $100 to $150 to the base price of it 1987 foxes.th line is assembl in brazil. 
 the compani also is introduc a new product, a mixtur of fruit liqueur and brandy.in a bid to distinguish it brands, the christian brother has taken it name off it generic tabl wines, renam the line "mont la salle," and has reserv the christian brother name for it top-of-the-lin vintag wines, which are be pushed. 
 anoth recent campaign has target the market for inexpens wines.on ad ask consum to "tast the fun" of christian brother line of low-alcohol wine with name like "wild berry" and "la blush." 
 sale for continu oper for the fiscal year grew about 8% to $210 million from $194.9 million in fiscal 1986.earlier in the current fiscal year, ipco sold it sterl dental busi and it dental prosthet line, which had combin annual sale of about $20 million. 
 term weren't disclosed.th 185-acr shipyard was shut down by general dynam last summer after it complet build a line of maritim posit ship for the military. 
 the amount of stock involv wasn't disclosed.colg plan to buy minnetonka softsoap brand liquid soap, villag bath adult bath products, sesam street children bath product and institutional-commerci line of liquid soaps. 
 mr. lewi appar has readi buyer for some of his new beatric european operations.certain co-own of those intern line -- such as the ballv famili of madrid, who sold beatric an interest in their campofrio meat concern in 1977 -- have been tri to persuad beatric mr. kelli to let them repurchas their stakes, accord to the ballv attorney. 
 he wouldn't elaborate, except to add that he has "no plan to dispos of a signific part" of his new holdings.for beatrice, the sale of the intern oper mean mr. kelli has achiev his goal of strip the compani down to it u.s. domest food core, led by it hunt tomato product and wesson cook oil lines. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday, del e. webb close at $25.75 a share, down 37.5 cents.webb said the discussions, which it describ as "cordial," center around the two group interest in webb; potenti licens problem the group might encount with webb nevada and new jersey gambl operations; webb recent announc that it might split up it leisur and real estat oper and possibl sell part of the company; and the compani intent to take hefti writedown this year from it gambl lines. 
  new line of person comput was among it best seller in
 world of wonder said friday that it expect lazer tag toy -- of which it has $25 million in inventori -- to recov from recent weakness.it also said it has begun shipment of a new line of school accessori and a video game, and plan to ship other new toy soon. 
 then the compani took a hard look at it remain businesses."w ask what was it possibl to do to elimin expens without hurt the long-term vital of those lines," mr. mockler says. 
 two of it busi line -- the manufactur of portabl electr power tool and of gas meter -- could easili be spun off or sold.in 1986, these line account for $294.5 million of singer $1.73 billion in revenue. 
 if singer doe becom a takeov target, a potenti acquir might have a relat easi time gain support from institutions, which own about 55% of singer.whil singer divestitur of it sew line last year was hail by sharehold and analysts, it top manag hasn't alway receiv the highest praise. 
 in addit to common stock, allied-sign own $200 million of union texa prefer stock that was purchas last year when union texa cash flow fell below specifi targets.allied-sign second-quart net incom fell 22% to $148 million, or 85 cent a share, includ profit from continu oper of $111 million and a $37 million gain from the sale of discontinu lines. 
 tandon had been sole a maker of disk drive for ibm pcs, but decid to expand it busi after post hefti loss becaus of a glut in the disk drive market.however, the compani had difficulti with it person comput line domestically, and was hurt by the comput industri slump. 
 tandi corp. unveil addit to both the low end and high end of it comput line, includ a power model that is price about 20% lower than similar machin from intern busi machin corp. and compaq comput corp. 
 as expected, the fort worth, texas-bas electron retail introduc a machin base on intel corp. 80386 microchip, which is becom the standard chip for the highest perform ibm-compat computers."they'v broaden and strengthen their line, though there aren't ani technolog breakthroughs," said eugen glazer, analyst with dean witter reynold inc. in new york. 
 ibm 80386 comput becam avail in june.tandi introduc two addit to the low end of it line, aim at two market that are tandi tradit strength, school and home users. 
 donna rice link to gari hart is start to pay off.th miami actress-model, whose relationship with mr. hart upset his presidenti campaign, will appear in tv commerci and magazin ad this fall for a women sportswear line call no excuses. 
 the beauti industri has been consolid rapid in recent year as drug compani have rush to shed their cosmet and fragranc businesses.meanwhile, cosmet and personal-car compani have snatch up the lines, prefer to buy establish brand rather than build new one from scratch. 
 avon hasn't chang it plan to expand but doesn't see ani immedi candid of arden size, he said.ear this year, beecham group plc sold dian von furstenberg fragranc to revlon group inc. american cyanamid co. sold the jacquelin cochran fragranc and treatment lines, includ the distribut right to the nina ricci line, to sanofi inc. squibb corp. sold charl of the ritz group ltd. last novemb to yves saint laurent, which in turn sold part to revlon month later. 
 revlon sold bain de soleil to procter & gambl co.th few major beauti line still own by pharmaceut compani includ schering-plough corp. maybellin and pfizer inc. coti line. 
 "bi use this approach, an investor can just about get his money back when the pool of equip is sold," mr. smith says.in high technology, phoenix leas inc., a unit of phoenix american inc., san rafael, calif., say it cut risk in it cash distribut fund ii by invest in 12 differ line of comput and peripher equip and leas them main to fortun 1000 companies. 
 it not a pcjr by ani means," said frank l. bryant, presid of neeco inc., a canton, mass., comput chain.whil ibm offici and analyst said the compani has had some success with it model 30 machin in the educ market -- until now the low end of ibm new ps/2 line -- the compani face stiff competit from both tandi and apple. 
 tandi offici wouldn't discuss detail of the announcements.also wide expect are new addit to the low-end of tandi comput line, which are aim at the compani strongest markets, in education, small busi and home computers.in addition, tandi is expect to unveil a more power laptop comput to add to it alreadi success line. 
 term weren't disclosed.alfin stop sell it skin-car line last month and said it would take a pretax write-off of $15 million for it fourth quarter end juli 31, in addit to a third-quart $4.6 million reserve, to cover cost of leav the business. 
 tandi unveil four addit to it comput line, includ a power model price 20% below similar machin by ibm and compaq. 
 produc onli one million barrel a year, pittsburgh brewing, which is a unit of swan brew co. of australia isn't go to challeng giant anheuser-busch cos.still, mr. carota job is becom more complex as the breweri expand it line to 18 brands, includ sever beer (samuel adam boston lager, pennsylvania pilsner, thirteen coloni amber, old heurich) brew under contract for other companies. 
 smithklin beckman, base in philadelphia, will own 60% and sumitomo will own 40%.the joint ventur will be base at smithklin beckman tokyo headquarters, and will develop and market the pharmaceut concern line of gastrointestinal, cold and analges products, includ smithklin contac and cimetidine, the activ ingredi in tagamet. 
 the averag price chevron receiv for west texa intermediate, a benchmark product, rose to $18 a barrel from $14 a year ago; it current is $20."although benefit our domest explor and product operations, this strengthen in crude oil price hasn't help our refin and market results," mr. keller added, note that those line were hurt by reduc return on sales. 
 but even when microwav food look and tast acceptable, there can be unexpect snags.gari esbeck, market manag of frozen food at hormel, recal that particip in a recent focus group in kansa city, kan., were suspici of the authent grill mark on his compani line of microwav meats. 
 sale increas to $159.6 million from $116.5 million.ronald j. brown, senior vice president, market and sales, said the result reflect strong demand for the latest microcomput -- appl comput inc. appl se, intern busi machin corp. person system 2 line and compaq comput corp. new 386 machine. 
 "there was some initi confus when ibm announc the ps/2, but now there is major interest in the ps/2 and the other new microcomputers.at the same time, the whole line of older products, the pc-at type products, is still strong." 
 "it is our intent to own the company," said howard bermick, alberto-culv execut vice president.mr. bermick said the propos acquisition, if completed, would expand alberto-culv retail and profession toiletri line. 
 mr. kulli say western could rais it net by 25% annual for the next three year by boost oper profit onli 9% a year, "simpli becaus interest will go down and goodwil amort will go down."but he doubt the compani can grow much faster than that, cite it need for more disciplin and focus in it "helter-skelter" product develop line. 
 the except is x-ray mammographi equip for the diagnosi of breast cancer."thomson has a more complet line of mammographi equipment," said robert l. stocking, vice presid of market for ge medic equip group in milwaukee. 
 compaq comput corp. report that net incom more than tripl in the second quarter on burgeon sale of the compani high-end products.sal climb even after intern busi machin corp. unveil a line of compet comput april 2, a day after the period began. 
 on june 30, however, the day compaq project for the second quarter was made public, the share jump $3.375 to close at $46.875 a share.th result also strong defi nay-say who said that compaq might face a big slowdown in sale after ibm new line of comput was introduced. 
 compaq comput profit more than tripl in the second quarter, exceed expectations.sal continu to increas despit ibm introduct of a compet comput line. 
 ford motor co. said it will spend $900 million to develop a new line of auto or truck engin and retool it tractor plant in romeo, mich., to produc them. 
 coleco industri inc. has run into a hairi legal problem over a new line of it cabbag patch kids. 
 put nylon-root hair -- rather than braid cloth hair -- on cabbag patch doll was it concept, albert says.accord to alberts, coleco is pay royalti for use the concept on one popular line of dolls, but not on the bubbl bath babi line, which was introduc earli this year. 
 the suit also ask for unspecifi monetari damages.arthur albert, who run albert with his wife, said he has heard that a propos "talking" cabbag patch line might also have nylon hair, and that he would expect royalti payment on that product, too. 
 a week later, clabir general defens unit said it would buy all of hi-shear 5.9 million share for $23.50 each.at that time, clabir and general defens chairman henri d. clark said hi-shear new defens product fit well with general defens line of anti-tank weapons. 
 remind the comptrol that befor he can creat a bottom line, someon must generat the top line of the incom statement.bi have the sale repres do what he or she doe best -- namely, meet direct with the custom -- and by support that function with skill peopl to do the autom administr for them via cellular phone connections, you can chang the way your top line is created. 
 undistract by the rabble, mr. smith ("sinjin" to player and fans) stretch in a beach chair and await his first game.h wear blue and white tog from sideout -- his person sportswear line that is expect to have revenu of $5 million this year -- and lie under an umbrella bear the name of a new sportswear shop he run with his brother and sister in nearbi santa monica. 
 nissan motor corp. plan to announc today a separ u.s. dealer network that will market an upscal car line, dealer familiar with the project said. 
 nissan motor corp. plan to announc today a separ u.s. dealer network that will market an upscal car line, dealer familiar with the project said.th move would make nissan the second japanes auto maker to opt for a separ dealer network in an effort to highlight a new line of cars. 
 one dealer said nissan told him that the sport coup would be price in the low-$30,000 range; the sedan may be price in the mid-$30,000 range.h ad that nissan current is consid introduc the line in the fall of 1988 as 1989 models. 
 the new car are expect to be power by an eight-cylind v8 engine, a move that would make nissan the first japanes auto maker to introduc a car with that larg an engin in the u.s. larg engin can be veri profit for manufactur becaus buyer are will to pay more for the extra power.person familiar with nissan plan said the compani could requir some of the dealer in the new network to have separ facil for the new car line, if their current dealership premis can't be gear to an upscal market. 
 stuart hall co. expect fiscal third-quart net incom to declin sharpli becaus of competit price of it school product line, said charl g. hanson, chairman and chief execut officer. 
 but constitut item should have a longer life, sinc the celebr run through 1991."we think it has a lot of stay power," say tom elsbernd of allen co., blanchester, ohio, which offer a line of commemor glassware. 
 briefs: the second citi experiment theater group in chicago open a new revue, "kukla, fawn and ollie, or contra hear me knocking." . . .a new line of exercis machin for children is call futur force. 
 intern busi machin corp., in a move appar aim at shore up lag softwar develop efforts, has form a new softwar division.in addition, ibm has establish a market unit that will focus on it midrang comput line, which has been under sieg from rival such as digit equip corp. 
 traditionally, ibm bread-and-butt has been in oper system for midrang and mainfram computers, the intern softwar instruct that guid the machines.th new applic system divis will consolid ibm world-wid softwar develop activities, and help outsid softwar maker write program for ibm new line of person computers, midrang system and mainfram machines, said joseph m. guglielmi, presid of the new division. 
 he was assist group executive, market and support, in ibm big market arm, the inform system group.mr. ford appoint indic concern on ibm part over it midrang lines, which continu to have difficulti in the second quarter. 
 black & decker corp. said it incorrect state in a recent interview that it was place less emphasi on such personal-car product as hair dryers.in fact, the compani said, hair dryer and other personal-car line have alreadi been eliminated. 
 mr. schulman said he estim that fourth-quart order rose 25% or more from the strong year-earli level.h said the 9370 line of comput from intern busi machin corp. doesn't appear to be hurt digit sales. 
 prime comput inc. said it ad a more power system to it line of desk-sid minicomputers. 
 comsat said it is negoti with "sever potenti buyers" for the manufactur unit and the satellites.th compani alreadi has agre to sell it comsat intern communic subsidiari and remain comsat technolog product lines. 
 merril lynch advanc 7/8 to 36 5/8.the brokerag firm was recommend by smith barney, harri upham & co., which cite it better-than-expect revenu in it merger and acquisit line in the second quarter. 
 sale rose to $2.8 billion from $2.5 billion last year.th figur for the 1986 quarter have been restat to exclud sale and expens of discontinu lines. 
 as of march 31, the most recent figur a spokesman said he could obtain, ralston debt total $1.49 billion.much of that debt result from the compani $1.42 billion acquisit of union carbid corp. batteri division, which make the evereadi line, in april 1986. 
 in it fiscal first quarter end may 2, marcad earn $2.1 million, or seven cent a share, on revenu of $36.1 million.a previous reported, marcad has agre to acquir close held europ craft import inc., maker of the member onli sportswear line, for undisclos terms. 
 chrysler attribut the jump in oper earn to cost-cut move and to higher profit margin from strong truck and minivan sales."w said we were go to put a heavier emphasi on truck in this company, and move upscal to a richer product mix in our car lines," said lee a. iacocca, chairman and chief execut officer. 
 yet even mr. amerman impress intern experi doesn't alway prepar mattel for the quirk of some foreign markets.th compani recent start oper in india and was surpris to find that the master line and hot wheel car far outsold the perenni star, barbie. 
 about $420 million of the total will be spent this year, he indicated.for example, scott manag will seek board approv soon for expand product capac in dover, del., for softkins, a line of wet bathroom-tissu product aim at adult markets. 
 apollo comput inc., chelmsford, mass., said it sign a multimillion-dollar agreement with cetia s.a., a subsidiari of thomson-csf of france, under which cetia will develop and market workstat base on apollo comput and software.th contract call for apollo to deliv system and server from it domain seri 3000 workstat and it dn500 line of graphic workstat over the next five years. 
 the close of the plant, which make bias passeng and truck tire and radial light truck tires, will result in the layoff of 1,300 workers.th unit said ani charg for the close were includ in a $65 million provis it parent took in last year fourth quarter for the restructur of it north american tire lines. 
 du pont co., wilmington, del., said it plan a $60 million expans of manufactur capac for it zytel line of nylon resin in uentrop, west germany. 
 mr. exley said order were "particular strong" for the compani person comput and tower famili of supermicrocomputers.th compani in may bolster it person comput line with three new comput and a workstation, includ one base on intel corp. power 80386 microprocessor. 
 the household applianc compani net in the quarter fell to $47.4 million, or 65 cent a share, from $52.4 million, or 71 cent a share, in the 1986 second quarter.th compani blame the declin on, among other things, the depreci and engin cost of introduc a line of kitchenaid refriger and laundri applianc in the first quarter. 
 alco standard corp. said it plan to sell it alco beverag co. unit, alco gift and glasswar subsidiari and alco packag and metalsourc corp. steel distribut operations.th line repres almost 15% of the compani total revenue. 
 but a dealer, a larg custom and sever ibm insid confirm that an announc is nigh.ibm had seem to abandon the low end of the person comput market when it introduc it new person system/2 line in earli april. 
 but "they still were make money on the xt, and ibm doe not leav money on the table," said bob orbach, director of busi develop at 47th street computer, a new york retailer.ibm is expect to bring out a machin that use the same central processor as the xt, has the same color monitor as the machin that is at the low end of the compani new pc line, accord to the industri executives. 
 historically, ibm remain flexibl until the last possibl moment on the price and configur of a new product, so the industri sourc caution that their inform is somewhat speculative.though ibm new line of person comput has done moder well, it is by no mean certain that a new low-end machin would succeed. 
 tandi said it think it would continu to hold a price advantag over ibm."you'r compet with equip that avail . . . in tandi line from $599 up, and we discount," said ed juge, director of market plan at tandy. 
 "you'r compet with equip that avail . . . in tandi line from $599 up, and we discount," said ed juge, director of market plan at tandy.separately, dealer said ibm has begun offer addit discount on it new line of person comput and has begun pay freight charges. 
 that was much less than expected, analyst said, and reflect heavi discount in respons to competition.ibm said both order and shipment increas dure the quarter, and singl out it new line of person comput as show particular strength. 
 ibm said it after-tax profit margin fell to 8.4% from 10.4% in the 1986 half.in the second half, ibm is expect to benefit as it start to ship in volum the new version of it 3090 mainframes, it 9370 minicomput and some product in it new person comput line. 
 ford motor co., dearborn, mich., said it is invest $563 million in a new line of light truck and the expans of it louisville, ky., truck assembl plant to accommod product of the trucks.th auto maker said $260 million will be use for the expansion, and $303 million will be use for development, engin and other cost relat to the truck line. 
 heinz said the transact is subject to complet of a definit agreement.champion valley farms, base in bloomsburg, pa., make a line dog food product market under the "recipe" brand. 
 the pc1, which will arriv on the italian market this month, has a base price of one million lire ($750).it oper program make it compat with model made by intern busi machin corp. and other main comput lines. 
 as part of the agreement, cooper will acquir certain right to use the joy name and trademark in connect with the acquir business.cooper, a maker of tool and compress and drill equipment, said the new busi complement it exist compressor line and should improv it market posit and extend the horsepow rang it can offer in certain type of compressors. 
 from a 52-week low of 26, microsoft share near quintupl to a peak close price of 126 1/2 reach may 8, rank the stock as one of the great stori of the current bull market.behind the move: strong sale of person comput clone that also use the pc oper system microsoft develop for intern busi machines, and ibm decis to use microsoft softwar in it new pc line. 
 but now he believ the risk is on the downside.with second-quart pc softwar busi down 5% to 10% from the march quarter and third-quart prospect uncertain due to custom confus about the new ibm line, the roberston colman analyst says, "there is go to be an unusu lack of visibl at a time when investor need some comfort." 
 sinc 1984, mattel has tri to focus on toys, abandon it electron and entertain businesses.recently, mattel has been hurt by slump demand in the u.s. for it master of the univers and rainbow brite toy lines. 
 the oper system is softwar that direct some of a comput basic operations.th os/2 system, schedul for releas in the 1988 first quarter, was announc april 2, the same day intern busi machin corp. unveil it person system/2 comput line. 
 northern telecom ltd. is expect to unveil today a new line of digit telephon switch hardwar and softwar that doubl the current voic and data process capac of it exist switches. 
 in earli may, the new york attorney general offic said it was investig alfin advertis claim for glycel.in late may, alfin said it would refocus it busi back to fragrances, it origin business, and said it had hire bear, stearn & co. to studi altern includ the sale of the skin-car line. 
 in late may, alfin said it would refocus it busi back to fragrances, it origin business, and said it had hire bear, stearn & co. to studi altern includ the sale of the skin-car line.besid glycel, alfin skin-car line includ birthright cosmet for pregnant women, and irma shorell, a diversifi line of cosmet that alfin acquir in 1985. 
 intern miner & chemic corp. said it mallinckrodt inc. unit is divest a hand of peripher busi as part of an effort to focus on line with higher profit margin and stronger market positions. 
 intern miner & chemic corp. said it mallinckrodt inc. unit is divest a hand of peripher busi as part of an effort to focus on line with higher profit margin and stronger market positions.proce from the sale of the various line are expect to exceed $100 million, the compani said. 
 term of the two transact weren't disclosed.in addition, mallinckrodt has put it forma scientif laboratory-equip busi and it barium gastrointestin imaging-product line on the block, intern miner said. 
 sun microsystem inc. is slate to introduc today a new line of high-perform workstat that provid the horsepow of convent minicomput cost 10 time as much. 
 in april, sun chop the price on it low-end workstat 37% to less than $5,000, a move that has sinc been match by it main competitors, apollo comput inc. and digit equipment.th compani also recent announc a line of communic product that can connect a full array of person computers, workstations, minicomputers, mainfram and supercomputers. 
 between 40% and 50% of data translat product are use in intern busi machin corp. person computers, or ibm compat machines.mr. molinari said the compani is design product for the ibm ps/2 line of person computers, as well as for appl comput co. new macintosh ii. 
 for texa instruments, the agreement is one of it first major announc to flesh out a busi strategi the compani outlin in december, emphas allianc with other semiconductor makers.intel is an obvious choic in that strategy, analyst said, becaus texa instrument line of semiconductor is weakest where intel is strongest. 
 "this give rise to hope," mr. mandresh said.th bullish analyst said mani ibm custom order the compani new 3090e line, a seri of enhanc version of it mainfram computers, and mani other upgrad their exist machines. 
 he ad that, "bi the 1990s, concern about ibm domin of the industri will resurface."still, it remain to be seen how fulli custom will adopt the 9370 mid-rang line and ibm new line of person computers. 
 sun microsystem will unveil today a line of comput workstat it hope will be the industri standard. 
 mr. schafer move quick to suit his shopper tastes.when the aid epidem struck, he introduc a line of key chain bear plastic-encas condom and the message, "in case of aids, break glass."when sak fifth avenu made a splash with s.f.a. t-shirts, south of the border t-shirt shop introduc the s.o.b. fashion line. 
 the compani will add a new melt furnace, upgrad an exist furnac and instal new glass-form equipment.an addit 100 job are expect as a result of the improvements, which will allow the plant to add to it line of scientif glassware. 
 e-ii, to be head by former esmark chairman donald p. kelly, is an offshoot of close held beatrice.th new company, which contain beatric non-food businesses, such as samsonit luggag and stiffel lamps, and some smaller specialty-food lines, will be use primarili as a vehicl for acquisitions. 
 he couldn't be reach yesterday for comment.th new compani contain beatric non-food businesses, such as samsonit luggag and stiffel lamps, and some it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 she own a london wine bar and recent bought a big hous in the country, where she plan to instal herself and the entir famili (mum, dad, kid sis and the dogs).sh also launch a line of cosmetics. 
 at a news confer schedul for today at the marriott marqui hotel in new york, compaq will roll out some comput industri royalti -- it own president, rod canion, plus a triumvir of softwar princes: chairmen william gate of microsoft corp., edward m. esber of ashton-t co. and jim p. manzi of lotus develop corp.th purpose: to put out the word that the new line of comput from intern busi machin corp. hasn't lock compaq comput out of import futur advanc in software. 
 applic software, such as spreadsheet and word processors, is written to fit "over" the oper system.os/2 was introduc april 2 along with the new line of comput from ibm. 
 while it isn't out yet, microsoft say it will run on comput current available, like those made by compaq and others, as well as on the new ibm model that deviat in some way from the standard design that compaq uses.compaq appar think some comput buyer believ os/2 can onli be use on the new ibm line. 
 if buyer are confused, it isn't surprising.for one thing, the new ibm line is, not coincidentally, call ps/2. 
 what more, while microsoft has done most of the develop on os/2, ibm is make some slight alter and will put out it own version, call ibm os/2.in it public statements, ibm hasn't deni that os/2 will run on comput made by compaq and others, but it say the system will run faster and with clearer graphic on the new ibm line. 
 "i find a lot of my client equat ps/2 with os/2 and figur everyon els is out in the cold."industri watcher say ibm may well be right that os/2 will run better on the new ps/2 line, which includ some hardwar enhanc that other comput maker don't have yet. 
 the acquisit will allow bell atlant to start a new leas unit for medic equipment, particular medic imag devices, the spokesman said.th compani intend to fold nation fund other leas line into tricon. 
 mr. johnson said that the compani hasn't ani immedi plan to make an acquisit and that it hasn't acquir a new compani for at least 10 years."we'v had all that we can do to improv the line that we'r in," he said. 
 earlier this month, bsn enter negoti to acquir medalist industri inc., a milwaukee-bas maker of commerci and industri products, for $25 a share.last year, bsn purchas medalist protect equip division, ad it to it line of cheerlead suppli and it tenni ladi inc. chain of athlet cloth stores. 
 a fireman fund spokeswoman said the decis appli to all kind of insur written by fireman fund and it affiliates."massachusett doesn't allow a compani to withdraw from just one line," the spokeswoman said. 
 "we'v never handl toshiba.w don't have a need for the line," said warren g. hyman, chairman of newmark & lewi inc., a retail chain base in hicksville, n.y. 
 he run a pro tournament in los angel for volvo, is chairman of the southern california tenni association, and is activ in junior-develop program for the u.s. tenni association.perhap most notably, wilson sport good co., with whom he has been associ sinc he turn pro, just came out with a new line of mid-siz graphit racket that will bear his name. 
 compaq comput rang in price from about $2,000 to about $9,000.the increas -- similar to gain the compani has regist in previous quarter -- indic that compaq product are fare well despit new competit and uncertainti creat by intern busi machin corp. new line of person comput that debut on april 2. 
 the microprocessor is a complex of integr circuit on one silicon chip that perform the comput basic computations.mr. canion was cautious, however, about draw conclus regard the success of the new ibm line. 
 ccx, a maker of tool steel, glass fiber and wire screening, said the charg consist main of a $9,870,000 write-down of asset and close expens relat to certain domest and foreign specialti steel operations.th compani also had another, smaller one-tim charg and some profit from discontinu line in the quarter. 
 volvo cars, a dutch auto maker, is own 70% by the dutch govern and 30% by volvo, a swedish auto maker.th dutch econom ministri said that as part of the debt rescheduling, a second dedic trust would be creat to help fund futur model lines. 
 mr. krumm said in an interview that slowli rise interest rate and a downturn in the hous industri will hurt the industri after four year of record sales.mr. krumm said the magic chef acquisit move maytag into the major applianc line in which it want to be, such as refriger and ranges. 
 he said one reason for the expect gain is that the compani expect to benefit from the new feder tax law.mr. atwat attribut the gain larg to strong increas in unit volum and market share by the food and restaur compani packag food lines, includ cereals, flour, betti crocker bake and dessert mix and gorton frozen seafood. 
 befor the 1986 fourth quarter, the ail auto maker most recent profit was in the 1984 fourth quarter.mr. cappi made the forecast here while introduc part of amc 1988-model line. 
 "perelman want this compani bad enough that he will to pay enough to get it," said one person close to the revlon chairman.mr. perelman has argu that combin revlon cosmet product with gillett line would creat one of the world most formid consumer-product companies. 
 in the past five months, no fewer than five bid have been made for becor, a century-old rust belt fixtur in south milwaukee, wis.becor excav equip line are well regarded, and they fit well with most of the suitor businesses. 
 the spokeswoman ad that the compani is notifi exist policyhold their polici will be cancel in 60 days.sh said liberti isn't write ani new worker compens polici in the state but it will continu to handl other lines. 
 kraft inc. said it complet the previous report acquisit of the anderson clayton food divis from quaker oat co. for $235 million.th glenview, ill.-bas food concern said the unit, which includ the chiffon margarin and seven sea salad dress lines, had sale of $433 million in fiscal 1986. 
 caterpillar inc. said it was select by navistar intern corp., a chicago-bas truck manufacturer, to suppli fuel system compon for navistar futur line of diesel engines. 
 current sales: 1,000 meal a month.two minneapolis-area hospit plan nation distribut this year of their nutriti cuisin line, made by a local food processor.american hospit suppli corp. plan a line of special-diet meal to help increas hospit food-servic revenues. 
 american hospit suppli corp. plan a line of special-diet meal to help increas hospit food-servic revenues.nutracar inc., newport beach, calif., expand it line of hospital-market meals, hope hospit themselv will begin use them for patients. 
 j boat inc., newport, r.i., predict sale of 22-foot to 36-foot sailboat will doubl in the next 10 years.still, some sailboat maker hedg their bet by start powerboat lines; other drop their sailboat line altogether. 
 parker g. montgomery, chairman and architect of a seri of such spinoff of coopervis compani over the past sever years, said the propos action are design to "help maxim sharehold value."th compani eye-car product line had sale of $162 million in fiscal 1986. 
 your may 7 stori on itt corp. potenti sale to an investor of it telex line and it merger with western union state that if the lebow group also bought the telex busi of rca corp., the result combin of all three telex busi would result in mci communic corp. be the onli remain u.s.-bas competitor in the intern telex business. 
 ing.c. olivetti & co. introduc a line of six person comput design to compet with a group of machin unveil in april by intern busi machin corp. 
 both can be use either in local-area network or alone.in addition, the line includ a workstat call the s-281 for use in network and a low-end, stand-alon model call the m-240. 
 "it will be a record year in term of (unit) volum and revenue" for ibm person comput sales, mr. low said.h ad that ibm has increas it sale forecast for the machin sinc the april 2 introduct of the ps/2 line. 
 in composit new york stock exchang trade yesterday, ibm close at $164.875 a share, up $1.625, and was the third most-act issu with 2.2 million share chang hands.earli this month, rumor were widespread that the ps/2 line was sell poor and that it new oper system -- the softwar that control the basic function and promis enhanc capabl for the ibm comput -- would be delayed. 
 the avail of the special ibm-design version of the oper system, which will give the new comput featur that maker of less expens compat machin can't easili copy, will be announc in the fourth quarter.mr. low also indic that most of ibm old person comput line will be phase out by the end of the year. 
 as foolish as the question may seem, rep. wyden bill is sillier still.w might avoid much legisl nonsens if he and other congressmen would learn a basic truth of economics: ani attribut of costs, and therefor profits, to differ line in a multi-product firm is entir arbitrary. 
 ford sale jump 14.1% in mid-june.a number of it car lines, includ the crown victoria and taurus, post gains. 
 gm may allow inventori to remain high as leverag against a possibl strike by the unit auto worker union dure contract talk that start in july.still, the excess of 1987 model crowd dealer lot could hinder gm effort to introduc it 1988-model line this fall, which is whi mani analyst expect more financ incent or bigger product cuts. 
 ramada inc., ad budget motel to it current line of midpric and high-pric lodgings, said it acquir parkmount hospit corp. and it 160 rodeway inn in the u.s. from a unit of london-bas ladbrok group plc. 
 after a three-year string of success in the european comput market, amstrad consum electron plc of britain has encount it first major sale disappointment.a spokesman for the fast-grow compani confirm that sale of an import new comput line are run below origin expectations. 
 unconfirm report of the sale setback, circul by london financi analysts, had wipe #280 million ($450 million), or 23%, off amstrad stock-market valu in the past three weeks.th comput line, amstrad pc-1512 rang of person computers, compat with the industry-standard intern busi machin corp. pc, was launch last septemb with great fanfare. 
 marcad group inc., an apparel maker, said it agre to acquir close held europ craft import inc., which make the member onli sportswear line. 
 no one consid the strong-wil mr. sarni a pushover.h win prais from analyst and shareholdera as a cost-cutt who has expand oversea sale and move the compani from slow grow commodity-typ busi into higher-margin specialti lines. 
 stauffer specialty-chem divis make lubricants, flame retardants, addit for the synthetic-rubb industri and catalyst for the petrochem industry.al are sector that exist within akzo lines. 
 american brand agre to buy acco world corp., an office-suppli concern, for $29 a share, or $602 million.th purchas continu american brand aggress acquisit of consumer-product lines. 
 though bausch & lomb argu against the recall, it said the court order wouldn't affect it financ becaus retail inventori of the solut are small.th rochester-bas compani said it had alreadi introduc an improv line of salin solut known as hypo-clear. 
 the dutch electron maker alreadi suppli lcd screen for computer, industri and profession applications.japanes electron compani have been produc televis with five-centimet lcd screens; philip plan to launch a line of set with six-centimet lcd screen later this year. 
 the famili of david grutman, a barco vice president, has agre to tender to the donner the 600,000 share it controls, barco said.michael donner said the famili hasn't ani immedi plan to expand the company, but will develop exist line of the business, found by the elder mr. donner stepfath in 1929. 
 most of the charg in the current period stem from a decis to halt product of a disk drive, quantum said, and as a result, it intend to dismiss 29 employees, or about 3% of it work force.quantum said it cancel the product as part of an effort to concentr on it core line of disk drive and develop of higher-performance, smaller disk drives. 
 among the more attract asset that could be sold is the mail-handl equip business.mr. boksen estim the line alon could fetch between $250 million and $300 million. 
 pennwalt corp. said it agre in principl to acquir a line of fungicides, insecticid and herbicid and their relat manufactur facil from le raffineri de soufr reuni of marseilles, france. 
 fleet said it also acquir the leas for equip financ offic in new york and agre to retain it staff of 40.providence, r.i.-bas fleet financi is a bank hold compani oper sever line of financi services, includ commerci and trust banking, mortgag banking, real estat lending, invest bank and data processing. 
 fremont earlier took a $31.4 million charg against third-quart earn to cover potenti loss from certain discontinu operations.moodi said it review will focus on fremont off-balance-sheet exposur and the adequaci of it reserv for discontinu lines. 
 a few interact toy are alreadi on the market.a line of "captain power" figur from mattel inc., for example, can exchang infrar gunfir with the villain in a new cartoon show. 
 he hasn't elimin enough jobs, mani analyst say, and he has also been critic for unveil some product too soon.for instance, ibm new line of person comput were introduc in april, while the line new oper system won't be avail until next month. 
 later on, it is expect to roll out operating-system softwar that would even more sharpli increas the process speed and would final let programm take advantag of some of the fanci new featur of the current hardware.then, by 1990, ibm is expect to announc a whole new line of mainframes, start the product cycl all over again and make it competitor play catch-up for a while. 
 advertis agenc j. walter thompson co., which has endur a string of recent account losses, yesterday lost pepsico inc. slice soft drink line. 
 the human group was pace by an 18% rise in it naproxen and naproxen sodium anti-arthrit drugs.th compani diagnost line show an 8% sale increase, while sale of animal-health product rose 7% from a year ago. 
 "this could be a terrif opportun for good value, mid-pric brand to reassert themselves," say nanci posternak, manag director of strateg servic at thompson."peopl still will splurg on a european car or the top-of-th line stereo system, but they may choos a lower-pr dishwash or tv set if the brand is perceiv as a good buy." 
 the compani also said the base price for it 1988-model car will be an averag 1.7%, or $195, higher than 1987 models.chrysl has been announc price piecem but yesterday gave firm price for it entir model line. 
 "you don't normal see price reduct in the model year, you usual see incentives."th compani price move are meant to increas buyer interest in chrysler slow-sel line. 
 c. olivetti & co., the italian comput maker, is brace for troubl follow the stock-market crash, but compani execut said they remain optimist about a reviv of sag profit next year.to speed it expect comeback, europ second-biggest maker of person comput yesterday introduc a line of power minicomput and a new market strategi design to increas it slip share of world comput sales. 
 analyst predict net incom will fall as much as a third this year, from 565.5 billion lire in 1986.one problem has been flat sale of olivetti five-year-old line of minicomputers.th new line of minicomput shown yesterday seek to boost olivetti minicomput sale by 50% annual over the next two years, mr. levi said. 
 a lawyer for elizabeth taylor co. couldn't be reach for comment.unilev group chesebroughpond inc. unit, which distribut and licens ms. taylor line of perfumes, said it wouldn't comment until it has review the opinion. 
 fidel invest is prepar a major expans of it year-old line of plymouth fund and, in effect, is hire it competitor as it sale force. 
 it tradit has sold it fund through direct market techniques, such as newspap and magazin advertis back by a telephon network.although the compani clear isn't abandon such methods, it is look to broker-deal to sell the new fund line. 
 that compar with $3.3 billion through direct marketing.to tri to tap that market, fidel last year round up a "pilot group" of 12 brokerag firms, financi planner and other to sell the plymouth line. 
 all plymouth portfolio are run by fidel managers, or what william t. ryan, plymouth general manager, call "the first team."in fact, the first plymouth fund, the special situat fund, was a well-establish fidel capital-appreci portfolio that was move over to anchor the plymouth line. 
 kaypro corp., which enter the comput sale market in 1982 with a line of transport computers, said it discontinu the line, and part as a result, the comput product concern post a fiscal fourth-quart net loss. 
 kaypro corp., which enter the comput sale market in 1982 with a line of transport computers, said it discontinu the line, and part as a result, the comput product concern post a fiscal fourth-quart net loss.kaypro said the line of transportables, which are larger and bulkier than portabl machines, was drop becaus of "competit pressur and the amount of sale effort" requir to promot it.th line account for onli about 5% of kaypro sale of $105.6 million for the fiscal year end aug. 28, a compani spokeswoman said. 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday, kaypro share close at $1.0625, down 0.1875 cents.sal of the kaypro transport line have dwindl in recent years, as smaller, lighter-weight laptop comput have gain popularity. 
 kaypro has focus late on other comput products, and in 1985 introduc it person comput that is compat with intern busi machin corp. pc at, market it primarili to small busi and professionals.andrew f. kay, kaypro chairman, said elimin the transport line would allow the compani to concentr on market of "a smaller group of mainstream technolog computers." 
 goodyear departur from thompson was expected; the tire maker had said in june it would leav thompson if wpp bid succeeded.although goodyear will move most of it account to new york-bas young & rubicam, a close held ad agency, thompson will keep the compani high-perform tire line. 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday, ashton-t stock fell $2 to $17.50.ashton-t cite strong sale of it multim word process softwar line and "rapid acceptance" of it dbase mac, a databas manag softwar product for user of appl comput inc. macintosh model. 
 the compani said it expect to bring to market in 1988 new product which it predict will "have a signific impact on the comput industry."a spokesman said the compani is plan anoth generat of it dbase line, addit product for the macintosh, and more softwar aim at let dbase user on a person comput access inform store on larger systems. 
 devilbiss account for $250 million, or about 28%, of champion total 1986 sale of $883.8 million.but the unit had a loss last year, and analyst have said it line of auto-paint system and health-car product didn't match well with champion basic auto-part business. 
 prestolit also will purchas build and land in arcade, n.y., where the product are made.motorola said that the two line no longer fit it busi strategi and that their sale is part of the compani plan to focus on high-technolog electronics. 
 sear also will develop a disney brand of merchandise.sear line of winnie-the-pooh cloth and accessories, develop under a previous 22-year-old exclus licens agreement with disney, has generat sale of more than $1 billion in the past decade, the compani said. 
 eastman kodak co. said it will begin market a new line of medic kit to be use in physician offic to test for pregnanc and various infecti diseases. 
 olivetti, europ second-largest supplier of person computers, was "tri to convinc everybodi that whatev ibm {intern busi machin corp., the first-rank supplier} can do, they can do better," recal custom john heaps, deputi general manag of britannia build society, a british thrift institution.th olivetti sale pitch succeeded: a few week later, britannia spent #4 million ($7.2 million) on a new line of olivetti person comput for it tellers. 
 the most power model -- which olivetti bought from scottsdale, ariz.-bas edg comput corp. -- crunch number about four time faster than olivetti exist "line 1" minicomputers.th edg model is expect to cost more than twice the 50 million lire of olivetti top-pric mini in it current line. 
 among other things, analyst say, it risk confus custom and dealer becaus it line 2 machin also may compet with minicomput it alreadi market in europ for at&t.th expect unveil of the new minicomput line, along with septemb introduct of a line of new olivetti person computers, seem to correct one of olivetti biggest problem this year. 
 ici has fold the agrichem busi into it ici america inc. unit, base in wilmington, del.then, in short order, ici sold stauffer specialty-chem line, to akzo n.v. of the netherland for $625 million, and agre to sell the basic-chem business, to franc state-own rhone-poulenc s.a. for $505 million. 
 yet mr. mcdonald has brought some surpris of his own.sinc the annual meeting, he has back off a rosi earn project and delay the introduct of a new comput line, and the compani has said it is the subject of a secur and exchang commiss investigation. 
 brokerag hous are roll out a new line of defens invest product and strategi to appeal to investor still quak from the oct. 19 stock-market crash. 
 last year, for example, the compani announc a "silver parachute" plan to help protect all compani employe -- not just execut -- in case of a hostil takeover.th compani also pioneer the open offic concept with it "action office" line of furniture.that line is be succeed by a line of flexibl offic compon call ethospace, which was introduc in 1985 and use remov tile to adjust to differ situations. 
 but the omni and horizon account for less than 40% of chrysler sale drop, and the addit of american motor car sale -- where year-to-year comparison are terribl -- for onli an addit 15%.the problem also lie in such place as chrysler midsiz lebaron line, which has had flat sale this year, even though it has been expand to four model from two. 
 commodor intern ltd., west chester, pa., said fiscal first-quart net incom jump 70% on increas sale of it amiga line of computers, but revenu edg down 1.2%. 
 shipment of two of the three amiga model began onli this year.mr. gould said sale also were strong for anoth line, it pc-compat computers. 
 but it task is formidable.th compani model 64 comput is mature, and it personal-comput line is up against stiff competit from giant like intern busi machin corp., appl comput inc. and tandi corp. 
 lexus cars, which will cost in the low $30,000 range, will be introduc in an increas crowd marketplace.they will compet not onli with establish luxuri car but with honda motor co. new acura line and nissan motor corp. plan infin luxuri cars, which it intend to introduc in 1989. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it upgrad it line of system/88 computers. 
 daihatsu will origin limit sale to eight western states, and it product line will includ onli three separ models, which the compani describ as in the high rang of "entry-level" cars.but it said it will eventu expand throughout the countri and may offer a full line. 
 quaker oat co. said it consid bid on certain of beatric co. food lines. 
 quaker oat co. said it consid bid on certain of beatric co. food lines.william d. smithburg, chairman and chief execut officer, told report after the compani annual meet yesterday that he interest in such beatric line as hunt tomato products, wesson cook oil and tropicana juices.but he said he hasn't decid to make a bid for ani of the lines. 
 i'm sure mr. silverglad inadvert overlook the fact that campbel has sold low-sodium soup for years.also, this past summer we brought out a line of "special request" soup with one-third less salt. 
 sale rose 29% to $59.7 million from $46.2 million.talley said the loss includ charg of $19.8 million from discontinu operations, reflect anticip loss in the plan divestitur of talley slow-grow consum lines. 
 the 12-acr facil produc chemic use in the person care, detergent, agricultur and oil-field chemic industries.n distil is an energi and chemic concern here; the compani has shed it distil line and has said it plan to chang it name, effect jan. 1, to quantum chemic corp., subject to sharehold approval. 
 the surviv rate for most new toy is pretti dismal.but tyco toy inc. has devis a market strategi for one of it new toy line that sound practic suicidal. 
 even though christma gift account for rough 60% of all toy sales, the compani is ignor the holiday altogeth this year.not until dec. 26 will it begin a $10 million advertis and promot push for it dino-rid line of dinosaur action figures. 
 moreover, kid will be itchi to spend holiday gift money and will probabl have a few present they want to exchang as well.robert lurie, tyco vice presid of advertising, say the post-christma introduct of the dino-rid line is primarili a market decision, but he conced that product delay also influenc the timing."about two-third of the line could have been readi for christmas," he says, "but if we had hurri it, the qualiti and authent of the dinosaur might not have been as good." 
 in 1986, ibm fourth-quart earn drop 48% to $1.39 billion, or $2.28 a share.most analyst expect much stronger earn in the current quarter primarili becaus of lower expens and new product such as the compani new person comput line and it model 9370 mid-rang computer.however, mr. aker said that ibm mainfram line -- the model 3090 -- would show onli slight growth for the year. 
 gm said the move, in addit to other things, help the compani ensur that worker keep their skill sharp.th auto maker said the cutback will be particular appar in the celebr and cutlass ciera model lines. 
 a medalist spokesman said the compani hasn't had contact with bsn in a while and that bsn is leav it option open by say it might seek control of medalist while lower it stake.th file said that should bsn increas it stake, it may seek represent or even major represent on medalist board, or sell certain line of medalist busi "not complement bsn current businesses." 
 toyota alreadi make about 200 corolla fx and fx-16 model car a day in with general motor corp. at a joint ventur plant in fremont, calif.th engin in both those line are 1.6 liter. 
 the company, taken privat last year by it manag and merril lynch, also concern analysts.publ document indic that the compani earn are far behind projections, larg becaus of continu soft in the trailer and contain busi -- it princip lines. 
 at a nation hardwar show in chicago, the compani recent exhibit about 30 new power-tool product and an expand group of accessories.among them is a patent line of drill bit call "bullet," which the compani hope will have the same impact as it popular "piranha" line of circular saw blades. 
 sun microsystem inc., which previous sold it line of technic workstat through it own direct sale force, said it is sign up outsid resel to help it broaden distribution. 
 the product on display here have convinc particip that the industri will maintain this year 30% to 35% growth rate for at least a few month even if the rest of the economi falters.vari product have suppli some of the miss piec for intern busi machin corp. new line of person computers. 
 las vegas, nev. -- unisi corp. introduc a line of person comput that bring it up to date with competitor and give it a basi for expans in this field. 
 unisi lost 1/2 to 33 1/2.the comput maker introduc a line of person workstations. 
 for some, that mean offer bigger-ticket items, such as a $295,000 lynx coat.for others, it mean sell x-rat products, includ a line of anatom shape chocolates. 
 there even a tape "hot shopper" program in new york featur x-rat product for cable-dish owners.a produc say sale total $40,000 in september, but the line of anatom shape chocol had to be elimin becaus the candi melt dure shipment to a florida consumer. 
 the "extended" version of os/2 includ featur that make it far easier for person comput to talk to mainfram and extract data from them.it was promis at ibm april announc of it new line of person comput and is a major featur of ibm push to lock up the corpor market. 
 whenev they appear, the applic will final bring to a head a simmer war of word between ibm and it competitors, notabl compaq comput corp. of houston.ibm has been say it think the new softwar will run faster on it new line of comput than on competitors', but compaq and other have said ibm was just blow smoke. 
 ast said there was no recoveri of profits, damag or attorney fee in the settlement.th ibm lawsuit against ast is part of the comput maker aggress legal campaign to protect it new line of person comput from clones. 
 technolog stock were mixed.intern busi machin fell 2 5/8 to 121 7/8 although the comput maker said the oper system for it new line of person comput would be releas ahead of schedule. 
 christian lacroix flashy, billowi cloth are as cumbersom as the gown mari antoinett ladies-in-wait dress her in.last week, mr. lacroix, the hot french designer, brought his fall 1987 line here for a chariti fashion show at the world financi center in lower manhattan. 
 electrolux, which isn't affili with ab electrolux of sweden, has annual sale of about $400 million.a previous reported, the electrolux unit didn't fit with chicago-bas sara lee line in packag non-dur consum products. 
 orange-co inc., a citrus grower, processor and shipper, acquir it first juic line by purchas premium juic of florida inc., lakeland, fla. 
 occasionally, he even lose the grace and simplic that character his best work: in one set of coats, the shoulder are so awkward pad they look as if the coat hanger have been left in by mistake.market the zaitsev line here should be an enjoy challenge. 
 the group also said it would consid file with feder antitrust regul for clearanc to boost it stake.th group, which has held talk with invest banker regard some of the possibl actions, said it would consid sell certain atlas line and properties, should it gain control. 
 singer is consid by analyst to be an excel takeov target.whil the compani divestitur of it sew line last year was hail by sharehold and analysts, it top manag hasn't alway receiv the highest praise. 
 meanwhile, demand for the omni and horizon model is veri strong.sal of the subcompact rose sharpli after chrysler cut their price earli in 1986, but chrysler had to stop build them last march when it began retool the belvidere, ill., plant where they were made for a new line of luxuri cars. 
 one general motor corp. plant remain down for model changeov this week.th doraville, ga., plant will begin output of a new line of mid-siz car late next month, a compani spokeswoman said. 
 the latest results, which exceed analyst earn estim of about 81 cent a share, indic that compaq comput sold well even as competit from intern busi machin corp. heat up.ibm introduc a new line of comput april 2, but mani of the model weren't avail in larg quantiti until later in the summer. 
 singer share trade at a 52-week high of $59 in september.though analyst hail singer divestitur last year of it sew line, they still consid the compani to be an excel takeov target. 
 northern telecom ltd. said it is form a new ventur with two french concern to manufactur and distribut it sl1 line of privat branch exchang in france. 
 third-quart oper profit from tenneco energi busi rose to $101 million from $77 million a year earlier.it manufactur busi had a loss from oper of $52 million, compar with year-earli profit from oper of $101 million, on lower result from it newport news shipbuild unit and a "significant" deficit at it case ih tractor unit, which post loss from discount a line of tractors. 
 even the compani corpor symbol seem to take on a new significance.mr. hope wife, mary, was eager to see singer jimmi dean, who has lent his name to a line of the compani sausages. 
 the book with croak frog and other talk charact have also been delayed.mr. kingsborough still expect diversif to bear fruit, and some retail report that a line of school accessories, call class act, did well late this summer. 
 among other things, the pact was spur by investor confus about the market valu of minstar hodgepodg of businesses.minstar sport line includ ben hogan golf clubs, head tenni and ski equipment, and swim gear. 
 j.c. penney co., new york, said it store will no longer sell home electronics, hard sport goods, or photograph equipment.th retail plan to expand it women apparel lines. 
 the move is part of a continu strategi to focus on famili apparel and other soft good such as jewelry, cosmetics, shoes, and home accessori at it more than 1,400 store nationwide.th discontinu lines, which still will be avail in penney catalogs, repres about $550 million in total store sale for 1987, the compani said. 
 it would not estim sale volum for the year.in 1986, the line contribut 5.1% to store sales. 
 in 1986, the line contribut 5.1% to store sales.th compani estim that sale from ad apparel line will repres about two-third of the sale of discontinu hard goods. 
 the merchandis change, which involv redesign departments, will cost about $65 million.william r. howell, chairman and chief execut officer, said the chang was dictat larg by consum priorities, as well as the profit potenti in apparel lines. 
 uniroy goodrich tire co. is have a "tough year" becaus tire shipment to auto maker have declin 22% and raw-materi cost have increased, patrick c. ross, chairman and chief execut officer, said.th company, form in august 1986 in a merger of the tire unit of b.f. goodrich co. and uniroy inc., also is be hurt by product ineffici that aros when it introduc 24 new tire line in late 1986, mr. ross said in an interview. 
 the compani also had "difficulti and frustrations" mesh account and data-process systems, he said.but mr. ross said that the ad tire oper -- some of which fill hole in the compani line and some of which are new -- strengthen uniroy posit in replac and original-equip market as well as in the private-brand segment. 
 research industri corp. said a feder judg here upheld it right to sell a line of open-heart surgic cathet in a patent-infring suit against it by minnesota mine & manufactur co. 
 research industri corp. said a feder judg here upheld it right to sell a line of open-heart surgic cathet in a patent-infring suit against it by minnesota mine & manufactur co.th judg reject claim that the line infring on a minnesota mine patent, and the judg order the minneapoli compani to pay $600,000 in cost and attorney fees, research industri said. 
 the tender share repres about 96% of lamaur outstand shares, a spokesman for the chemic produc said.th acquisit give dow chemic a new consum product line. 
 these product current use rayon, cellulos and other synthet materi as absorbents.th compani drop it line of dispos diaper a few year ago. 
 industri offici expect ibm to negoti similar accord on intellig network with other intern switch maker in come months.ibm new desktop-publish packag consist of a printer, a circuit card, a "mouse" point devic and aldus pagemak softwar for use with the high-end version of it new line of person computers. 
 "most fast-food oper aren't true to their origin product anymor and that strategi is working," mr. rockwel said.h cite a new line of bagel introduc by pillsburi co. burger king corp. unit, a superbar buffet that includ italian and mexican item at wendi intern inc. and packag salad at mcdonald's. 
 a second 8% cut in august took nova product down to 550 car daily.in addit to the nova, new unit motors, also known as nummi, build 200 toyota fx model a day, but doesn't plan product cut of that line, the spokesman said. 
 some celebr do commerci announc tri hard to keep it a secret.actress kathleen turner read the line in a fab laundri deterg commerci earlier this year, and her contract specifi that her ident remain confidential. 
 meanwhile, mcdonnel dougla corp. is conduct it own propfan aircraft develop program.th st. louis-bas compani believ the program could bring propfan-pow deriv of it current md-80 line onto the market in earli 1991. 
 the maker of life-sci research equip had a net loss of $800,000 in the year-ago period."th two main line that we sell are molecular- and cell-biolog products, and both are do realli well world-wide," mr. thompson said in an interview. 
 whirlpool corp. said it form a joint ventur with sundaram-clayton ltd. of madras, india, to make a full line of major household appliances. 
 alliant comput system corp. introduc a comput to fill the gap in it line between it high-end and low-end machines. 
 the execut expect the compani onshor and offshor contract drill servic busi to have a "modest profit" for all of 1988.as reported, the compani is considering, among other options, spin off or sell the drilling-servic lines. 
 other wonder if gillett is boost near-term profit by action that will hurt futur profits.gillett is tri to dispel that notion by disclos plan to step up market in it sag toiletri business, such roll out a line of dri idea antiperspir for men. 
 sale in the buick divis tumbl 68% in earli octob compar with a year ago.buick sold onli 778 of it 1988 buick regals, the debut model in the newli introduc gm-10 line that gm is hope will increas the compani share of the midsiz car market. 
 at&t will announc today a technolog accord with sun microsystem that is intend to help at&t develop a new line of high-perform minicomput and workstations. 
 ncr corp. said it agre to acquir the printer unit of datagraphix, a divis of anacomp inc., for undisclos terms.th printer unit, which had revenu of about $30 million in 1986, market and servic a line of high-speed, non-impact printers. 
 the agreement is also an admiss by at&t that it bell lab research arm need help develop commerci comput products.at&t is expect to use the sun chip design as a blueprint for new chip that it will eventu make in-hous and use to power a new line of high-pow comput use the so-cal risc, or reduc instruct set comput technology. 
 earn for the quarter were on target, analyst said."al segment of their busi were up in sales, and they had an especi strong gain in their prescript line," said painewebb mr. nordmann. 
 despit appl emphasi of late on the busi market, school and student still repres a big slice of appl busi pie.indeed, appl origin appl ii comput line is still a mainstay in mani classrooms, account for near 40% of the compani total sales, analyst estimate. 
 such a move would bring gm practic into line with the account rule ford and chrysler use.in addition, gm has invest heavili in new factori machineri and in develop it gm-10 series, a new line of mid-siz car that begin with the 1988 buick regal. 
 indeed, the latest quarter was the first in which the compani post a profit from it person comput business.ncr recent expand it person comput line with three new comput and a workstation, includ one base on intel corp. power 80386 microprocessor. 
 first boston mr. milunovich said, "if there a risk for ncr, it in how well the market will accept the compani new products."h said that ncr 7000 line of termin -- use by retail and the food industri -- and it 9800 mainfram "are sell a littl below expectations. 
 the restructur should be complet in the next few weeks, he said, and could involv more layoffs.in addit to concentr on a few profit lines, mcdonnel douglas, an aircraft, aerospac and comput compani base in st. louis, has been narrow loss at the inform system group through cost reductions. 
 a mattel spokesman said it is target the infant and preschool toy market for expansion.h said that while the compani will continu to make other unrel toy for that market, all new product will be disney brand and will repres a "significant" portion of it preschool lines. 
 western digit said sampl of the chip use in it micro channel copi will be avail in january, and commerci quantiti of the chip will be avail a few month later.initially, the compani said, the chip will duplic the function of the micro channel just in the model 50 and 60, the medium-rang model in the new ibm line. 
 to be a legal copy, a devic has to be slight differ from it model, so there are sometim gap in a devic abil to mimic ibm equipment.clon of ibm initi line of person comput took time to catch on in the market, part becaus of horror stori about overblown promis of compat with ibm equipment. 
 for example, the bulk of ibm model 9370 shipment for the year -- which ibm estim at 5,000 unit -- will take place in the quarter.ibm also say that demand for it new ps/2 line of person comput "remain veri strong." 
 the book follow mingolla and his lover, a rebel name debora, as the two powerful, drug-enhanc psychic are suck into the war black labyrinths, which reek of blood and history.th book is the fifth in bantam new fiction line of origin trade paperback fiction, which was kick off this past summer. 
 clone of ibm new line of person comput could appear next summer follow a california firm announc that it has duplic a key devic insid the machines. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc a line of telephone-switch devic that it hope will shore up it posit in the huge but fierc competit market. 
 ibm also said the devices, which basic replac it exist product line, will take up far less space, requir less power, and be much easier to modifi as time goe by and new featur becom available.armonk, n.y.-bas ibm is tri to switch the emphasi in the market to the ad featur avail on it line, so it can escap the price competit that has made life so tough for rolm. 
 american honda motor co. acura divis is increas base price on it 1988 legend car 1.5% to 7.9%.peugeot motor of america said base price for it entir 1988 model line will rise 1% to 9.9%. 
 the firm claim ibm has grant the japanes firm concess long deni to them.separately, ibm unveil a line of telephone-switch devices. 
 dealer and secur analyst said the move show that ibm overestim the demand for that product, but they weren't sure whether the move portend problem for other model in the new line.th model 60 is one of five model in ibm new ps/2 line of person computers, and ibm has said demand for the line as a whole has been extrem strong. 
 ibm cut the suggest retail price by $500, to $5,795 from $6,295, on the model 60 version with a hard disk drive that contain 70 megabytes, or rough 35,000 pages, of information.it cut by $300 the price to dealer on the machine, which is base on the intel corp. 80286 processor and is in the middl of the ibm line. 
 raytheon said result were aid by higher earn in electronics, particular in it defens business, and in it energi servic division, which was restructur last year.th compani said it major applianc division, which includ amana refrigerators, was essenti unchanged, while it aircraft product line "continu to be affect by weak market conditions." 
 clear they are get some of the cost out," she said.ms. landi note that ge in the quarter had a restructur provis equal to $54 million, or about three cent a share, relat to it applianc busi and certain consum lines. 
 the pepperidg farm divis of campbel soup is also tri to appeal to consum worri about heart ailments.it ad tout the fiber content of a new line of bread and note that "diet high in solubl fiber can help lower serum cholesterol, a risk factor for heart disease." 
 compaq comput chairman, benjamin rosen, recal an analyst blunt report the day after intern busi machin introduc a spiffi new line of comput in april. 
 "one of the most import thing drive the (stock) price up is compaq abil to increas the averag sell price (of their computers) ahead of the industry," say michael geran, an e.f. hutton analyst.also, some say compaq is benefit from ibm discontinu of most of it old line of person computers.compaq still make machin compat with ibm old line, and ibm move has "forc the world to go out and sampl the other guy product," say daniel benton, an analyst with goldman sachs. 
 softwar to take full advantag of the hardwar ibm introduc in april won't be avail until 1988 and later.mr. geran compar the situat to 1964, when ibm streamlin it line of mainfram comput and hand prosper to honeywel -- for 18 months, befor ibm bounc back. 
 h.j. heinz co. said it has reach an agreement in principl to acquir the pet food oper of california home brand hold inc. term weren't disclosed.california home brand pet food line consist primarili of can dog and cat foods, includ the skippi premium, vets, sturdy, petuna and glamour puss labels. 
 along with new menswear and children stores, limit plan separ store sell just it limit forenza label.it also will launch a line of limit lingeri that will compet with it victoria secret lingeri chain. 
 such move help cut cost as well as offer custom "more real choices" instead of lot of differ vehicl with similar features, say donald t. sullivan, former director of plan for chevrolet.chevrolet is also ad new equipment, particular in it truck line, which ford outsold in the 1987 model year by more than 200,000 vehicles. 
 "we think veri high of this," said roy d. burry, an analyst with kidder, peabodi & co."thes are both fair low return businesses" relat to american brand other lines. 
 digit equip corp., maynard, mass., and emc corp. agre to drop suit against each other as part of a settlement under which emc will be grant a licens to use some digit technology.digital, a comput company, su emc in u.s. district court in boston in 1985 charg that one line of emc comput memori product infring on digit patents. 
 westinghouse, a pittsburgh defens contractor, broadcast and electr product maker, said challeng had sale of about $275 million last year.th transact includ substanti all challeng oper and busi in the u.s., puerto rico and canada, with the except of certain busi in albemarle, n.c., includ it stab-lok line. 
 while mani compani usual see a 25% increas in revenu each september, he believ the increas this year could be about 35% and even as high as 40% in some cases.th reason, mr. erlap believes, is that corpor are through evalu ibm new line of person comput introduc in april and "an enorm amount of pentup demand has been let loose" as some custom go for ibm new machin and other go for ibm-compatibles. 
 gencorp inc. said it general tire unit will increas price on it replac tire line 2% to 5% effect nov. 2. 
 in those categori it will offer a rang of goods, from it tradit bargain-bas fare to item with higher qualiti and fashion, and higher price as well.th new thrust first becam evid two year ago, when k mart hire former "charli angels" star jaclyn smith to endors a new line of women wear design to shed the "polyest palace" imag of k mart apparel.in it first year, the jaclyn smith line reap $100 million of sale -- without reduc sale of k mart other women clothes. 
 ic industri has approxim 113 million share outstanding.invest sourc said other possibl bidder for ic may emerge, includ e-ii hold inc., the fledgl chicago-bas compani carv out of beatric cos. nonfood line in july. 
 led by such brand as old el paso mexican foods, progesso soup and whitman candies, pet has an estim breakup valu of more than $1 billion, analyst said.th compani other units, all profitable, includ mida intern corp. auto repair shops, pneumo abex corp. line of aircraft land gear and flight control and the bottl operations. 
 a 14-inch-long sleek plastic aircraft with curv wings, it even resembl draw i'v seen purport to show the super-secret lockhe stealth fighter.th littl plane is equip with a flashlight beam that can regist hit on other toy in a whole mattel toy line. 
 intern busi machin corp. will introduc an improv line of telephone-switch devic next tuesday, accord to industri sources. 
 in addition, he said, the unit carpet didn't fit into the compani strategi of push brand-nam products, such as it martex bed and bath product and burberri clothing.j.l. lanier jr., west point chairman and chief execut officer, said in a statement that the sale would provid fund to expand into more profit textil and apparel lines. 
 colorol also just finish sort out crown hous plc. mr. ashcroft sold crown hous engin interests, rais #57 million of the #87 million ($141.6 million) takeov price.to save the oper it want -- main tablewar line -- mr. ashcroft acceler his usual eight-week timet for reorgan acquir companies. 
 more recently, mark & spencer plc, britain largest retailer, paid what mr. ashcroft suggest could be a backhand tribut to coloroll.mark & spencer is tri to extend it st. michael in-hous brand to a recent creat line of home furnishings. 
 a mark & spencer spokesman said the major reason is colorol involv in it own shops, appar refer to a showcas retail outlet colorol open this year on london expens regent street, as well as colorol relat with other retailers.mr. ashcroft specul the decid factor may have been colorol move to start it own brand line of light and furniture. 
 sale rose 5% to $6.13 billion.critic has been grow among secur analyst that mr. stafford, whose experi is concentr in packaged-food lines, has done a poor job of manag pillsburi restaur operations. 
 six month after intern busi machin corp. introduc it new line of person comput amid firework and a rush of favor publicity, realiti has set in. 
 "most user are start to recogn that despit the hype, the . . . (new ibm line) offer no signific perform advantag over competitor (and) cost a lot more than most of them," william f. zachmann, an analyst at intern data corp., wrote recent in infoworld, a trade publication.k mart corp., for instance, investig the new ibm product but decid to buy clone of the ibm at -- the high end of the prior ibm line -- as part of a program that may involv 13,000 person computers. 
 much of the softwar that will take advantag of the micro channel won't be avail at least until 1989, and the onli way to truli test a copi is to run the new softwar on it.that issue, which is crucial to the fate of the ibm line, may not be resolv for anoth year or more. 
 unitrod state that the agenc said the concern procedur are now "in compliance."unitrode, base in lexington, mass., said it will resum ship product in novemb and will be back to full product of most of it line by january. 
 the new pathway clear some of the bottleneck of the pathway in other compaq computers, which are base on the design set by intern busi machin corp. with it ibm pc in 1981.the chang is signific becaus ibm made chang to the pathway -- which it call the "microchannel" -- in it new line of comput introduc in april. 
 mani school and compani make such purchas easier these day by sell new machin to student or employe and pass along volum discount of 25% to 45% that they get from the manufacturer.in addition, some compani that bought pcs and pc xts a few year ago and are now replac them will sell the machin -- the low end of ibm origin line of person comput -- to employe for a song. 
 in general, industri executives, analyst and member of user group say someon who want busi softwar will want to look at ibm-compat machines, and particular at tandi model introduc last month.a consum who doesn't know comput basic and want a machin that especi easi to use may want to look at the appl line, includ one of the macintosh introduc in march. 
 that hundr of dollar less than an actual ibm xt and onli slight more than most compar no-nam clones.ibm has stop produc pc xts as part of a bid to get the world to shift to the line it introduc in april. 
 but the risk of machin compat with the xt becom orphan appear small.xt-compat comput can run all exist softwar for ibm-compat machin and can be upgrad to run softwar written for an oper system that microsoft corp. is close to ship for the new ibm line. 
 for someon seek more power -- to handl a spreadsheet or a big data base, for exampl -- mani specialist recommend tandi 1000 tx.this comput is compat with the pc at, which repres the high end of ibm old personal-comput line. 
 but the compaq and ibm machin respond more to the need of busi than of home users.th ibm line, for instance, is design to make it easier to link person comput with each other and with a mainfram -- hard an issu in the home. 
 in ani case, the benefit of the ibm and compaq comput carri a hefti price: the machin cost sever hundr dollar to $1,000 more than the tandi 1000 tx."the perform of all the machin is pretti much the same, and the averag consum doesn't need the architectur of the new ibm line," say michel preston, an analyst at salomon brother inc. 
 it and the macintosh ii are aim primarili at the busi market and are a bit pricey, but their eas of use has attract some peopl buy for the home.becaus they have sold well, softwar compani have releas more program for the macintosh line, includ some solid busi software. 
 becaus they have sold well, softwar compani have releas more program for the macintosh line, includ some solid busi software.th macintosh ii, which is rough equival in power to the high end of the new ibm line, is overpow for the home market. 
 both compani will continu to oper separ outsid this country.san francisco-bas chevron for mani year has produc the ortho line of chemic products, which has had a difficult time in an increas competit business. 
 ibm will introduc an improv line of telephone-switch devic tuesday, sourc said. 
 to start with, microsoft is write os/2, which will enabl high-perform comput built around intel corp. 80286 microprocessor, such as ibm pc-at and most of it new ps/2 seri machines, to run sever program at once, and will make it possibl for sever connect machin to share the same program and data.microsoft is also building, along with os/2, what it call "present manager" softwar to handl on-screen graphic in a consist way for both person comput and ibm full line of larger computers. 
 the weapon would be launch from anti-submarin helicopt and plane as well as from surfac vessels.develop of the mark-50 began in 1983, as the navi recogn it would need a sophist successor to it current submarine-seek torpedo line. 
 "we plan to keep improv the product and build an industri around the product," say michael kolowich, lotus vice president, marketing.indeed, the compani has announc plan for two new version of 1-2-3 for the ibm pc line and compat systems. 
 compaq comput corp. is expect to introduc next week speedier version of it top-of-the-lin portabl and desktop computers.th move are compaq first product introduct sinc intern busi machin corp. revamp it person comput line in april and indic that compaq is follow it test strategi of tri to leapfrog ibm perform and concentr on high-pow busi computers. 
 "it'll give (the compaq entries) the amaz graphic that have so far been avail onli on workstations.and it should be better even than the improv graphic on the new ibm line," the sourc said. 
 it the first time you'll have a (person computer) with workstat power."whil compaq is improv it graphic to match advanc made by ibm in it april line, sourc said the compaq model won't mimic the most import chang in the new ibm comput -- the "microchannel," ibm term for the pathway between the part of the comput that actual perform comput and other part like the memory, storage, modem and printers. 
 in do so next week, compaq will be direct challeng ibm new line in the big busi market.that is a sign of compaq belief that buyer still aren't complet enamor of the new ibm line, and also, perhaps, that the new ibm comput are prove more difficult to copi both technic and legal than the old line. 
 the friend transact save lamaur from the hostil takeov campaign launch last month by alberto-culv co.at the same time, acquisit of the st. paul, minn., hair-car product concern give dow chemic a new consum product line. 
 the farmland to be purchas is develop for citrus groves, nut trees, tabl grape and a number of other products, castl & cook said.among the product ad to dole current line of pineapples, banana and various vegetables, it said, would be almond and pistachios, raisins, cherri and strawberries. 
 mr. murdock said that his compani see the growth of dole help to unifi "the fragment agricultur market industry" in the u.s.castl & cook will retain the morrow and hous of almond names, he said, and will review tenneco other line to determin which will be chang to the dole name. 
 the project includ sever expect one-tim transactions.profit from continu line will rise about 50%. 
 american home doesn't produc contracept spong or condoms, and it two oral contracept are face increas competit from generics.vli earlier this month introduc a line of condoms. 
 castle, a hold concern that also develop real estate, would assum about $16 million of debt in that purchase.th dole unit, which castl describ as the world largest processor of fresh fruit and vegetables, would add oliv and fig to it produc line with the purchas from apache. 
 igen biotechnolog inc. said it will build a $10 million facil to manufactur the compani clandosan line of natur chitin pesticid and organ fertilizers. 
 general motor corp. set the base price of it new buick regal -- first of a new line of midsiz car that is crucial for gm comeback effort -- 7.7% higher than the model it replaces. 
 that price tactic is expect to be use wide in the model year that begin thursday, becaus auto maker expect a sale declin next year and thus will tri to compens by boost profit per vehicle.th buick regal is the first of gm new line of midsiz car develop under the code name "gm-10." 
 the team machin would extend cray parallel processor architecture, which involv use more than one processor to simultan perform calcul on differ part of a larg problem.presum the machin would debut in the earli 1990s, after the cray-3 model from the compani other design line. 
 without 43-year-old mr. chen, the compani would have reli primarili on it founder and premier designer, 61-year-old seymour cray.hi machin differ signific from those on which mr. chen worked; late mr. chen line, call by the suffix mp for multipl processors, has been outsel mr. cray designs. 
 mr. rollwagen said that he has detect "no major fallout" from mr. chen departure, other than question such as, "what doe this mean for cray five year out?"cray now plan to unveil it y-mp addit to the mp line, the last machin mr. chen completed, earli next year. 
 nation theme, which has found that it hottest halloween costum are the one it design itself, also hope to appli that lesson to the crystal business.next year it will add it own crystal and pewter line to the item on this year shelves. 
 it is grant exclus distribut right to anoth compani for the first time.smith corona will continu to sell it full line under it own brand name in the u.k. 
 one of at&t most success intern ventur is convers systems.th columbus, ohio, unit has develop and is sell a line of machin cost between $20,000 and $80,000 that understand simpl command spoken into a telephone. 
 pathmark experi isn't unique.th problem often crop up in the household-clean and health-and-beauti product areas, where hefti advertis budget for nation line often make store brand look too cheap by comparison. 
 intern busi machin corp. is use the huge comput trade show here this week to tri to prove a much disput market claim of the past year and a half: that it ps/2 line of person comput realli doe offer uniqu benefits. 
 yet, even here, the impact is mix becaus there are fewer clone than were expect a few week ago, and they are main from little-known companies.ibm also unveil a new addit to it line of local area networks, or lans, which can lash togeth group of computers, even from differ makers. 
 the new product let inform move along ibm network at 16 million bit per second, quadrupl the previous rate, ibm said.also at the comdex show, commodor intern ltd. is show off two new comput in it amiga line, a less-vis but feisti rival to appl comput inc. macintosh in the market for easy-to-us machin with flashi graphics. 
 black and white generic good are dying.in one sign of the times, retail are replac them with a new breed of product that fall between the old generic and mainstream store lines. 
 "we want to bring privat label up from be a poor second cousin compar to nation brand to be on a par -- not just a cheap imitation," say david freedman, art director of the glaser firm.indeed, mani supermarket are trumpet in everi way they can that their main store brand are equal, if not superior, to nation advertis lines. 
 say a pillsburi spokesman, "whatev claim pathmark may make, we have serious doubt they can meet the qualiti of haagen-dazs."th biggest risk are with a new generat of premium store line that are even more upscal than nation brands.sever year ago, grand union, wit brisk sale of specialti import foods, introduc laurent, it own line of fanci fare. 
 nevertheless, with profit margin higher on upscal than mainstream store brands, mani chain are follow suit.a&p got into the act this summer when it start roll out a line of jams, pasta and other foodstuff call master choice, an effort to fill what the compani see as a price gap between cost import brand and mass-market nation lines. 
 a special panel of rjr nabisco inc. director question presid f. ross johnson and some top lieuten yesterday about the state of the compani businesses.th session was part of the panel "due diligence" process, as it seek to evalu rjr food and tobacco line and lay the groundwork for consid bid for them. 
 this is the strang tale of how the biggest name in muscles, nautilus sports/med industri inc., lost it strength.th compani was found in 1970 by arthur jones, an eccentr former wild-anim import who had invent a revolutionari line of exercis machines. 
 with mr. jone distracted, nautilus fumbl effort to come up with new product of it own.a line of machin for home use bomb with would-b consum and anger nautilus tradit custom -- health club -- which saw the new machin as a threat to their business. 
 they blame their troubl on mr. jone and on since-depart nautilus execut (their own people, not jone holdovers), who they say spent too aggress in the diversif effort.and they are upbeat about new product -- a line of exercis machin for handicap peopl and computer medic machin design to diagnos and treat bad back (in competit with mr. jone new device) and other maladies."we'r excit about the medic line," say mr. bonney. 
 one area of expans will be licens agreement with other apparel companies.thi year, for example, playtex apparel inc. licens the gitano label for a line of fashion bras in the $6 to $8 rang to complement playtex basic $15 bras. 
 he maintain that forstmann littl has act with "total integrity" and "we need no advic from you in this regard."separately, quaker oat co. chairman and chief execut officer, william d. smithburg, said he would be interest in ani rjr busi put up for sale that relat to the chicago concern own lines. 
 william e. stevens, execut vice president, proud describ how the compani has reduc the lineup of motor it make for it power tool to about a dozen model from more than 50.recently, a revamp line of under-the-cabinet spacemak kitchen applianc was given a sleek, european look that won a top award from the industri design societi of america. 
 he had come from beatric cos., where he head the consum durabl group.at black & decker, he found aging, ineffici plants, shabbi sale efforts, and an undernourish line of small household applianc recent acquir from general electr co. 
 the compani promis anoth breakthrough in such accessori within the year.similarly, it recent roll out thundervolt, a line of power tool driven by a batteri pack that a user wear on a belt.th line is aim at industri and construct users. 
 similarly, black & decker is face it japanes competit head-on.last month it sign an agreement with shin-daiwa kogyo ltd. to market a special line of black & decker profession power tool in japan. 
 it was also wrong.a franchise in ani line are quick to point out, they own their businesses. 
 mr. amerman said both of mattel core brands, barbi and hot wheels, are sell well in retail stores.th compani line of infant and preschool product featur disney-licens charact and it new larg doll, li'l miss makeup, are also sell briskly. 
 but nestl isn't without it worries.som line have been lose market share as competit mounts. 
 national, base in santa clara, calif., meanwhile, said it expect it loss to result from a "sharp decline" in chip book and sale for the current quarter.thi forecast surpris some industri analysts, who were told by nation chief execut officer, charl sporck, last month that all but two of nation chip line are profitable. 
 as part of the transaction, at&t will obtain exclus technolog and market right to harri vsat earth station that it current markets.it also will acquir all exist inventory, test system and relat equip of the vsat line. 
 seiko instrument usa inc., torrance, calif., said it has reach a joint agreement with kisho corp. of japan to develop and market a line of consum audio product for the u.s. market. 
 seiko instrument usa inc., torrance, calif., said it has reach a joint agreement with kisho corp. of japan to develop and market a line of consum audio product for the u.s. market.seiko, the u.s. unit of seiko instrument inc., said the consum product will includ a line of audio compact disk players, portabl radio/cassett players, person cassett player and home compact disk bookshelf systems. 
 revlon, a unit of cosmet concern revlon group inc. of new york, said the fragranc should be on the market by fall, but the compani hasn't decid on price or distribution.fragr connect with line of design wear or cloth manufactur have becom popular recently. 
 fragranc link with gloria vanderbilt, calvin klein, ralph lauren and other have done well, as has colors, a fragranc launch last year by benetton.but andrew shore, a shearson lehman hutton analyst, note that a success line of cloth doesn't necessarili mean a fragranc will do well. 
 egyptair, the nation carrier of egypt, place an order total $20 million.tot order for the engin involved, pratt pw4000 line, have reach near $6 billion. 
 but it is testimoni to race conservativ that the innov draw the biggest cheer touch onli the hors skin and hoofs.on is a new line of jockey silk design under the aeroform label by rhonda allen, a sculptor whose husband, joe, own horses. 
 as for one of a klein, uncl gene opin that she'd be back, health permitting, to win again."w could start a whole line of klein horses," he mused. 
 such brand as citrus hill orang juic and pringl potato chips, for instance, have struggled.for ralston purina, combin nabisco cereal line with it own line could rais it market share almost to that of general food inc. post brand, the nation no. 3 cereal maker.nabisco make shred wheat and cream of wheat, while ralston cereal line includ chex cereals. 
 h.j. heinz co., seek to expand as a world market of fish product and to broaden it pet food line, is divid it star-kist food inc. unit into two separ oper affiliates. 
 he also contend the $900 million-a-year can dog food busi "is show slight-to-moder growth and is suffici larg to be attractive, especi becaus it appear to be undermarketed."heinz, which has sharpli increas it dog food busi through recent acquisitions, current is test it own line of can dog food. 
 so yesterday fall stun some analysts.it came after the austin, texas, company, which design and rent a line of special bed for the acut ill, report third-quart per-shar earn of 15 cents, compar with nine cent befor an extraordinari item the year earlier. 
 sale rose 15% to $200.2 million from $173.9 million.commodor chairman, irv gould, said the latest result reflect signific expans in sale from commodor expand product mix in it line of amiga person computers, the ms-dos person comput compat and tradit c64/ c128d comput in europe, north america and australia. 
 the company, a unit of north american philip corp., which in turn is a new york-bas subsidiari of n.v. philip of the netherlands, was charg with claim that the devic made tap water cleaner, even though norelco knew that methylen chlorid leach into the water from a glue use in the applianc filter, the commiss said.th compani learn of the problem in 1982 from consum report magazin and develop a new filter, but it continu to sell the initi filter line for three years, the commiss charged. 
 but the center for auto safeti say the winnebago diesel may have the highest percentag of defect of ani vehicl sinc 1969, when the nonprofit consum group was formed.th center estim that of the 7,800 winnebago diesel sold befor the line was drop in 1986, one in two is a "mechan lemon." 
 clarenc m. ditlow iii, execut director, say the ratio of problem vehicl rival onli that of the diesel car made by general motor corp. in the late 1970s and earli 1980s.the winnebago diesel line is "one of the worst, if not the worst," of all vehicles, mr. ditlow says. 
 a year earlier, net incom was $87 million, or $1.39 a share.th latest period deficit reflect a $51.9 million loss from discontinu operations, larg from loss in the multipl employ trust group health line. 
 the compani said it acquir the pizza busi when it consum product unit, dial corp., bought the consum product divis of purex industri three year ago for an undisclos amount.ellio was dial onli line of frozen-food products. 
 instead, charl sporck, nation presid and chief execut officer, focus on the compani huge semiconductor operations.hi speech includ previous undisclos detail on the size and profit of nation various chip lines. 
 that price, he said, would be rough $350 million.sever analyst said mr. sporck detail comment friday on nation chip line were meant to pave the way for the sale of nas. 
 as manufactur get bigger, they are like to pour more money into the battl for shelf space, rais the ant for new players.but even the consolid food giant would still lack the clout to complet derail retail demand or to tip the balanc of power back toward manufacturers. (in the case of kraft, for example, the compani pay slot fee onli on it frozen food line. 
 in anoth uncharacterist move, digit decid to buy a microprocessor from mip comput system inc., sunnyvale, calif., to produc a power workstat that use the industri standard unix oper system.th decis meant cancel digit own project to build a microprocessor and a departur from it messag of compat across the whole comput line. 
 the quarter also includ a $14 million write-down for cost associ with the compani credit-insur business.th compani recent announc plan to discontinu that line. 
 in nation over-the-count trading, appli biosystem rose 75 cent to $25.25.appli biosystems, which pioneer the make of so-cal "pick and axe for the biotechnolog gold rush," produc a line of more than two dozen autom machin plus chemic reagent for the analysi and synthesi of gene and protein by commerci and academ laboratories. 
 u.s. shoe corp. and lesli fay cos. announc a licens agreement in which u.s. shoe will make and sell a line of lesli fay footwear. 
 term weren't disclosed.th line will be made in the u.s. and introduc in februari for the fall 1989 season, the compani said. 
 the fragranc foundat list at least 45 for this year and next."th market mission today is to be abl to steal share of market from exist business," say martin danielson of parlux ltd., new york, which will launch the joan collin line this spring. 
 mr. hirsh said he recent resign from the partnership.in addit to own the vanderbilt line, murjani last august sign a licens agreement with chrysler corp. to market the jeep trademark on a broad rang of consum products, slate for deliveri next spring.murjani also has major ownership of tommi hilfiger, a struggl men sportswear brand, and coca cola clothes, a sportswear line that a murjani spokesman describ as "fizzl in the u.s. but still sell abroad." 
 it premium price "metal bar" dispos shaver, which stretch the skin as it shaves, is now be shipped.b plan to introduc it first line of perfumes, which will be aim at the mass market, in the 1989 first quarter. 
 the huge japanes trade compani has been consid join the buy-out effort for about two weeks, accord to japanes bankers, but the compani hasn't yet made a decision.th banker say that mitsubishi is interest in certain of rjr food lines. 
 mazda motor corp., which just launch it first u.s. minivan, recent discontinu the wagon version of it 323 subcompact car.gm chevrolet divis won't have a station wagon in it new lumina line of midsiz vehicles, which includ a sedan, coup and an "all-purpos vehicle." 
 station wagon won't disappear, however.chevrolet will continu to produc the midsiz celebr wagon after it roll out the lumina line. 
 hallmark card inc. said it reach an agreement to settl a two-year disput involv a line of it card that resembl those of blue mountain arts, a small boulder, colo., concern. 
 hallmark card inc. said it reach an agreement to settl a two-year disput involv a line of it card that resembl those of blue mountain arts, a small boulder, colo., concern.a previous reported, blue mountain su hallmark for trademark violations, contend that it person touch line of card was too similar to blue mountain art products. 
 last week, the suprem court left intact a preliminari injunct that bar hallmark from sell 83 "person touch" cards.a part of the settlement, hallmark said it will introduc a greet card line with a new name that will replac the person touch line and agre not to infring blue mountain trade dress. 
 in boulder, bob gall, general manag of blue mountain arts, said the compani is elat that it creativ design are protect and that "we can get back to publish card without fear of be copied."mr. gall said blue mountain publish about 100 differ card under the line it had charg hallmark with copying. 
 the compani declin to disclos the potenti buyers.if it were to sell the building-materi line, the compani said it would expect to report a one-tim $10 million after-tax loss.th line consist of the 35-store lloyd chain of retail home-improv centers, locat main in southern connecticut and in westchester, n.y. 
 it a good fit."in the u.s., hoover vacuum cleaner line will fill a gap in maytag offerings. 
 chicago pacif also has a furnitur operation, which analyst note is an awkward fit with maytag applianc focus, and which like will be sold to help financ the acquisition.th furnitur line could fetch about $300 million, estim mr. ryan of merril lynch. 
 and as they got more involv in the spirit of the season, adult costum parti evolv as a tonic for bore yuppies.adult halloween parti have balloon 25% in the past three years, estim hallmark card inc., which introduc a line of halloween gift and novelti two year ago. 
 but he plummet almost overnight both in rate and sales, forc store to institut steep markdowns.retail are alreadi worri that last year high-roller, pumpkin product oh lantern line of grotesque, polyurethan pumpkin faces, is head the same way. 
 retail are alreadi worri that last year high-roller, pumpkin product oh lantern line of grotesque, polyurethan pumpkin faces, is head the same way.marc firestone, vice presid of sale for fireston & associates, which sell the oh lantern line to retailers, contend that "there is noth wrong with sell a pumpkin in april." 
 meanwhile, standard and poor place west point $80 million of senior debt on it creditwatch list and said the secur could be downgrad if mr. farley bid succeed or if the compani pursu expect measur to remain independent.for his part, mr. farley said in a file with the secur and exchang commiss that he intend to sell west point apparel, apparel fabric and industri fabric lines.h would keep the compani sheet and towel lines, which are the crown jewel of company. 
 moreover, the sheet and towel busi is consid fair recession-proof and provid high profit margins.in keep the sheet and towel business, mr. farley would inherit west point martex and ladi pepperel brand name as well as the utica and tastemak line that origin were develop by stevens. 
 sale at sear store open at least a year actual declin slight in the quarter, analyst said.and profit was hurt by higher markdown in apparel at the stores, and in sever line of catalog merchandis sear is tri to clear out befor discontinuing. 
 the third quarter is typic the strongest one of the year for toy maker becaus the bulk of christma order are ship dure the period.galoob said it saw strong demand for it micro machines, a line of miniatur car that retail for about $4.it also cite demand for a line of doll call bouncin babies, retail for under $10, that it began ship in july. 
 micro machin are expect to account for about 40% of galoob sale this year, spark renew interest in the market for die-cast cars, as plastic action figur for boy have fallen out of favor.micro machin are like to continu strong through the christma season, but analyst say next year the line will face stiff competit from other toy makers, includ new offer from univers matchbox group ltd. matchbox toy and mattel hot wheel line. 
 this was a nebraska where "carriag and conestoga wagon alik wallow to the hub in the black mud," where the arikara and the sioux and the comanch were "anger at the slaughter of the buffalo, at the steel rail point west."mani of the volum in the bison line are like "the lieuten lady," best seller reclaim from the past through photograph reproduct of earlier editions. 
 you'v creat such a clutter that i don't know what to use.'thi kind of confus will lend itself to some pretti negat posit for some lines." 
 lopid could have been a billion-dollar-a-year seller but now look like a $300 million drug, one investor says.ther talk that the new york investor ronald perelman, among others, might want warner-lambert for it over-the-count drug lines. 
 sale at sear store open at least a year declin slight for the quarter, analyst said.and profit were hurt by higher markdown on apparel at the store and on sever line of catalog merchandis sear is tri to clear out befor eliminating, the analyst said. 
 mr. trugman left to assum the top post at del.gener microwav instrument line is particular attract to del, a maker of high-voltag power-convers devices. 
 kraft reject philip morri $90-a-shar offer and said it is develop a recapit plan worth at least $110 a share.th plan, which would forc kraft to sell some line and would boost it debt over tenfold, call for the compani to distribut about $98 a share, or near $12.5 billion, in cash and secur while let holder keep their stock. 
 but if the johnson-l group were to win the compani with a higher bid, it would have to do much the same.th $75-a-shar offer contempl keep the tobacco line and the best part of nabisco brands, if proceed from certain asset sale and financ term allow it. 
 mr. jacob said he didn't intend to use the borrow in anoth takeover.th transact also call for volvo north america marin division, volvo penta of america, to suppli as much as 20% of the engin for genmar boat line through june 30, 1991. 
 ashton-t corp. and digit equip corp. will announc today plan to co-develop version of ashton popular dbase person comput databas manag softwar for digit line of minicomputers. 
 "our custom would like simpler train for user and consist program from the termin to the pc, to the workstation, to the corpor comput level," said henri ancona, vice presid of the busi and offic inform system group at digital, base in maynard, mass."thi will provid for a common set of databas languag tool for the whole line." 
 he is "very, veri impressed," he says, by the perform to date of mr. sege heir apparent, norman h. pond, who was brought in as presid last decemb and is credit with mani of varian cost-cut measures.whil varian deriv much more than half it sale from a divers line of other electron products, it fortun tend to rise and fall on the health of it semiconductor-manufactur equip group, which move in tandem with the volatil semiconductor industry. 
 digit equip corp. introduc two microvax comput systems, to bolster the low end of it minicomput line. 
 domen lacava, digit group vice presid for low-end systems, said the microvax 3400 has 50% more perform than an as/400 b40 "for onli 60% of the cost."th new digit comput will replac the upper rang of it microvax ii line, provid twice the perform for the same price, mr. lacava said. 
 a second button open the trunk remotely.code-alarm also is develop a line of home-secur systems, which it say will get some of the proceed from the new stock offering. 
 and in the test stage now are kool shots, a liquid-concentr version, and kool-aid sport koolers, for young jocks.lin extension, this is called. 
 philip morri is a master of it, sell it famous cigarett brand not just as ordinari smoke but as lights, menthols, kings, slims.if philip morri succeed in it bid to add a host of kraft brand to it alreadi huge line of general food products, consum could face ever more such slight variat on a familiar theme. 
 larg food compani alreadi vari their best-known product this way, but compani in philip morri busi are the real experts."tobacco compani are heavili into line extensions," say al ries, chairman of trout & rie inc., a new york market strategi firm. 
 "there is no lack of adventur or innov in general foods," he says, note that it has introduc 75 new product as a philip morri unit.in particular, he cite culinova, a new line of refriger entrees, and ready-to-eat jell-o pud dessert. 
 for all it potential, the philip morri strategi of accumul well-known brand carri certain risks.ultimately, stretch a brand to it limit with line extens can erod brand loyalti if manag tri to make the brand all thing to all consumers. 
 kraft itself recent learn that lesson the hard way, after it 1984 acquisit of the celesti season herbal-tea company.it aggress extend the line, market 34 flavor from cranberri cove to grandma tummi mint. 
 but put the celesti season imprimatur on mix seasonings, salad dress -- and even cosmet -- prove a blunder.last year, with celesti bare profit despit $38 million of sales, kraft sold the line to a manag group. 
 for instance, wisconsin canner stoke usa inc. is fight a david vs.goliath battl with general food and kraft for freezer-cas space for it compet line of single-serv vegetables. 
 intern pharmaceut oper gain in sever product areas.high u.s. consumer-product sale reflect gain from foot-car product and the maybellin cosmet line. 
 foreign produc work hard to establish themselv in the u.s. market and won't give up their gain without a fight.a was the case in some consum lines, foreign produc drove mani u.s. compani out of busi in some industries, such as in certain line of advanc construction, print and textil machinery. 
 last year, the food division, which contribut about 10% of coca-cola profit, post a loss becaus of restructur expenses.whil the unit has reorganized, cut cost and taken bold new-product step recent by introduc premium choice, a top-of-th line chill juic product, analyst don't expect the divis to contribut signific to profit anytim soon. 
 she current is field more than 20 endors offer from apparel, cosmetics, soft drink and other companies, say her person manager, gordon baskin.on possibl is a flo-jo doll line from mca inc. "florenc is differ becaus she beautiful, she excel as an athlet and she has flair," mr. baskin says. 
 the propos merger would creat a giant with $20 billion in annual sale and some of the best known trademark in america.th general food unit, acquir for $5.7 billion three year ago, own the maxwel house, jell-o and kool-aid lines. 
 both compani said order fell in the period, caus the more sober outlooks.taken together, the two concern make a broad line of comput products, rang from larg mainfram to mid-siz workstat and smaller, special person computers. 
 unisi has generat impress earn growth larg through cost-cutting, but it can't continu to improv it perform that way much longer.w. michael blumenthal, unisi chairman, said custom wait to order the compani new 2200 seri computers, which begin shipment next spring, and hold off buy it older 1100 line account for part of unisi order declines. 
 a. schulman inc., an akron, ohio, supplier of plastic compound and resins, said it agre with mitsubishi kasei vinyl of tokyo to form a partnership, sunpren co., which will make a new line of polyvinyl chlorid thermoplast compound for the north american auto market. 
 at kraft, base in glenview, ill., mr. mile has been credit with a string of success such as a "light" version of philadelphia brand cream cheese, and with introduc product and rais sale and profit in the high competit dairi business, which includ such brand as frusen gladj ice cream.mr. mile has step up annual volum growth on sever of kraft brand to about 4% a year from 1%, larg through line extens -- new version of exist products. 
 vw dealer in the u.s. hail the chang as a much-need breath of fresh air for an automot organ on it knees."i think volkswagen has a realli tough time compet in the u.s. and they'r go to have to assess how they can realist keep up here," said j. rick hendrick iii, a big north carolina dealer who sell vw volkswagen and audi lines. 
 last year alone, audi lost an estim $341 million in the u.s. even an infus of sever new model in the past year and a heavili market extend servic warranti program have fail to halt the slide.whil not subject to such jar problems, the volkswagen line has seen it once-domin posit in the u.s. import small-car market evaporate. 
 bausch & lomb inc. said it will build a sunglass assembl and distribut facil in san antonio, texas, to keep up with strong demand for it ray-ban line of sunglasses. 
 even the lowli wastebasket can be made over.king-casey inc., a new canaan, conn., design and market firm, interview 2,000 consum about their dissatisfact with wastebasket and incorpor the result in a new line of trash contain for mobil chemic co., produc of hefti trash bags. 
 "unfortunately, sale induc are becom a more practic part of the business."th gm incent are in addit to discount leas program that the no. 1 auto maker offer on about 20 of it 1989 car and truck lines. 
 unisi corp. said it introduc sever product in it btos line of comput workstations, includ a workstation, a graphic processor and software. 
 takasago result odor have provid the basi for two bath-product line -- includ bubbl bath and bath oils, soap and talc -- from avon product inc. tranquil moments, a floral bath line introduc in 1986, suppos relax bathers.it success prompt avon last year to unveil reveille, a citrus floral bath line with "revitalizing" effects. 
 waldenbook store display longmeadow book lavish and keep pageant book on their shelv more than twice as long as other paperbacks."we'v given pageant more space becaus we'r tri to prove some points, to show that you can creat a publish line by promot it properly," mr. hoffman says. 
 the compani proceed from the offer will be use for work capital, product develop and other corpor purposes, includ possibl acquisitions.th compani develop and sell a line of interact comput game for person comput made by intern busi machin corp. and by appl comput inc. 
 it alreadi sell about 300 of the garment a year, main for industri worker to wear under heavi suit for hazard materi handling, but also for race car drivers, armor vehicl crew in the canadian army, and isra tank crew who are put the suit through desert trials.th line is "mild profitable," say bill elkins, president. 
 mr. shaffer said rohm & haa had earn gain in the latest quarter in it largest segment, which consist of polymers, resin and monomers, and in it second largest segment, industri chemicals.but plastic segment earn lag behind those of a year earlier becaus of a gain on the sale of the compani kydex plastic sheet line in 1987. 
 a spokesman at general tire, akron, said the problem was exacerb becaus the intens battl among the global produc to increas market share kept price down.h said general tire had difficulti get price increas to hold despit tight suppli in some lines. 
 mr. arguetti said anoth reason for the compani perform was jan bell improv product mix.jan bell recent began sell a line of watches. 
 weight watcher intern inc. accus stouffer corp. of unfair tip the scale in favor of stouffer lean cuisin food line in advertisements. 
 in a suit file in feder court in manhattan, weight watchers, a weight-loss busi base in new york, accus stouffer of unfair use it trademark name in lean cuisin ads.weight watchers, a unit of h.j. heinz co., pittsburgh, also has a line of low-calori foods. 
 it one further step away from the wire supplier imag of the old radio shack."th agreement will give digit sale forc a line of low-priced, ibm-compat person comput to sell to big customers. 
 power-tool sale have been brisk, he said, and the compani "has been bring out home-run product in the accessori area, such as the bullet pilot point drill bit and piranha saw blade."h expect the compani to unveil anoth signific accessori line earli next year. 
 norman g. fosback, editor of new issu newsletter, say gitano is "attractive" at 18.start-up cost for gitano new menswear line and the unfavor retail climat are drawbacks, say mr. fosback. 
 well almost.earli this year, malcolm s. forbes, forb magazin editor-in-chief, gave her a purpl harley to celebr her new perfum line, "elizabeth taylor passion." 
 there are no other negoti take place for the time being."chrysl hope that the program will increas sale of it own car in dealership that carri the alfa romeo line by increas showroom traffic, gerald greenwald, chairman of the chrysler corp. unit said. 
 ford motor co., for example, announc yesterday it will offer leas discount to consum on seven of it 1989 model car and all of it compact and full-siz pickup truck through the end of the year.th move follow by about a week a similar announc from general motor corp. of special leas discount on about 20 of it car and truck lines. 
 chrysler new program offer custom a choic between interest rate as low as 7.8% and rebat rang between $300 and $1,500.the 1989 model car includ in the program are the subcompact omni and horizon and the compact ari and reliant, which will be replac start this januari with a new line of midsiz cars; the eagl premier and medallion, which haven't been sell up to the compani expectations; and the japanese-built conquest tsi sport car. 
 the new manag last month sold schering-plough it u.s. contact-len care solut busi for $40 million.stil on the block are cooper diagnost business, it plastic and reconstruct surgic product operation, and it remain optometr lines, which includ it contact len business. 
 but he said lender are "work hard to find a viabl way to continu to support this company."th former zayr corp. chairman also said regina has temporarili stop sell both it stutz vacuum cleaners, which in juli began sell through dealer to small vacuum-clean shops, and it more expens cambridg line of cleaners, which began limit distribut in depart store last summer. 
 digit equip will buy tandi comput and sell them under it own label.th pact boost tandi imag and give digit a competitive, ibm-compat line. 
 overall, though, scott has made headway by hold down product cost and avoid the premium segment of the market, where rival such as procter & gambl excel.instead, scott has stuck to it economi line, emphas basic consum valu such as more sheet per roll and more roll per pack. 
 mr. lippincott explains, "it isn't easi to walk out with one of those roll under your arm."in the past two years, scott has extend the jumbo concept to includ a line of paper towel and soap dispensers. 
 data general corp. introduc a line of high-perform superminicomput that vault it past archriv digit equip corp. in the midrange-comput perform race. 
 speed can be increas by ad as mani as three more central processors, produc a $1.5 million comput that handl as mani as 50 mips.bi contrast, digit high-end line, which span about the same price range, handl from six mip to 24 mips. 
 most vintner suffer even sharper declin as the industri leaders, seagram co. and e & j gallo winery, gain market share at the expens of rivals.in the past six month alone, california cooler, a unit of brown-forman beverag co., revamp it entir cooler line and spent $20 million to promot it. 
 the agreement mark a signific move by digital, the second-largest u.s. comput maker, repeat fault when it has tri to sell it own person computers.tandy, base in fort worth, texas, manufactur a broad line of comput that are compat with those made by intern busi machin corp., and it sell them through it radio shack stores. 
 when mr. arnault began invest in moet vuitton, there were rumor he would seek direct control of dior perfumes.mr. arnault has said he is interest in moet vuitton itself, not just the perfum line. 
 regina co. problem with defect vacuum cleaner appar involv more than it housekeep and housekeep plus lines, accord to a judg opinion. 
 the judg opinion said one reason for his leav was distress over the compani failur to correct problem with the machine.defect equip and a high rate of return in the housekeep and housekeep plus line have appar contribut to regina recent financi problems. 
 last week the compani announc that it fiscal 1988 result were materi incorrect, and that it expect to report a loss for it current fiscal quarter, revers previous posit earn project by donald sheelen, who resign as chairman last week.regina has made impress sale inroad in the vacuum cleaner busi in recent year with it low-pric model aim at discount stores; the stutz line is more expens and will be sold in specialti stores. 
 regina has made impress sale inroad in the vacuum cleaner busi in recent year with it low-pric model aim at discount stores; the stutz line is more expens and will be sold in specialti stores.a memorandum submit by regina about it stutz line of cleaner was order seal for competit reasons. 
 individu familiar with regina note that the stutz cleaner hadn't been introduc until after the close of the compani 1988 fiscal year; the compani has withdrawn financi figur for that period as materi incorrect.nevertheless, the difficulti with the stutz line suggest other possibl problem for dealer caus by faulti equipment. 
 nevertheless, the difficulti with the stutz line suggest other possibl problem for dealer caus by faulti equipment.in deni the compani request for an injunction, the court note that mr. geehr new job involv sell commerci equip that doesn't compet with regina consum line, and that there was no evid that he plan to disclos trade secrets. 
 ford motor co., dearborn, mich., said it is discontinu it merkur xr4ti line at the end of 1989 model year. 
 chrysler, however, will have to "struggl like hell" to retain the 11% car-market share it earn in 1988, mr. greenwald acknowledged, larg becaus it will have limit avail of some import model as it shift product site and add new products, includ the spirit and acclaim midsiz model that begin replac ari and reliant k car in january.lloyd e. reuss, execut vice presid for gm north american automot operations, predict the no. 1 auto maker will pick up "a point or two" in car and truck market share in 1989, part becaus of gradual increas sale for the compani so-cal gm-10 cars, a line of midsize, front-wheel-dr car that initi sold below the compani expectations. 
 the fee were first challeng by mid-america pipelin co., a mapco inc. unit.th case is signific becaus it is the latest in a line of suprem court appeal rais question about the separ of power under the constitution. 
 honda motor co. will introduc a super-luxuri car in it acura line within the next coupl of years, two top execut said, and later probabl will enter two market segment -- minivan and entry-level cars. 
 time mirror acquir dorsey press as part of it $135 million purchas earlier this year of richard d. irwin inc., a colleg textbook publish concern, from dow jone & co. dorsey press publish social scienc colleg textbooks.a spokeswoman for time mirror said the sale was made becaus dorsey press oper weren't consist with time mirror core colleg and profession textbook lines, which are primarili for cours in accounting, law, medicine, marketing, manag and economics. 
 advanc micro devic inc. said japan hitachi ltd. will use the sunnyvale, calif., compani am29000 microprocessor chip as the heart of a new line of medic instruments. 
 the japanes auto maker will discontinu the charad csx, at $9,232 now the costliest of the three model it sell in the u.s. and the most sporti daihatsu, with air condit and a premium stereo system as standard features.in it place, daihatsu will offer the charad ces at a $6,197 base price, lowest in the line. 
 if that is in the ball park, investor buy xerox share today would pay onli about $1.4 billion, or less than $14 a share, for the compani copier and document process machin businesses.in a takeover, ms. sloat think xerox business-product line might fetch $85 a share, or 6.5 time cash flow from operations. 
 at the same time, it hope to attract new buyer by introduc new comput that use industri standard microprocessor and the unix oper system.it is expect to introduc upgrad version of it mv line next week. 
 mani execut at ibm hold stock options, he said, and "a lot of option are under water there," have been award when the price was a good deal higher.ibm has undertaken a massiv cost-control program, so far reach into it manufactur and market line and involv substanti staff cut and some plant closings. 
 l.a. gear backlog at aug. 31 was $55 million, up from $9 million a year ago.mr. horowitz attribut the strong earn growth to increas demand for the compani shoes, includ it recent introduc men line. 
 to take on other compani at this time in our life doesn't seem wise."th compani has been ad to it apparel business, with a line of jean and plan for a line of watches. 
 it is be squeez by asian competit in the compani tradit office-equip market.sal of a new line of minicomput haven't met the compani projections. 
 in the previous fiscal year, porsch profit fell 31%, to 51.9 million marks.th auto maker said unit sale have improv in recent month and that it expect increas demand for it car and improv earn in the current fiscal year, base on modif of it model line and spend reductions. 
 donald harnett, graham-field chief financi officer, said the compani share market and custom base with lumex unit.th lumex division, with about $37 million in annual sales, emphas durabl medic equipment, a good complement for graham-field disposable-equip lines, he added. 
 the merger propos would involv subsidiari of a compani control by mr. picow and montgomeri medic as well as control therapeut corp., a close held compani to which a montgomeri medic affili has provid ventur capital.control therapeutic, a develop company, hold a licens for a line of polym design to allow precis administr of pharmaceut without the need for mechan equipment. 
 trade book are all book sold direct to consum in book store and through mail orders.mcgraw-hil note that the colleg divis strength in social sciences, human and foreign languag will complement it own line of business, account and engin books. 
 seven year ago, 90% would have found it unprintable.attention, imelda marcos: a new line of number made-to-ord design shoe from charl jourdan cost up to $4,000 a pair. 
 poor qualiti and an unusu high rate of vacuum cleaner return may have contribut signific to regina co. recent disclos financi problems.interview with retail and vacuum cleaner industri execut indic that sever of regina housekeep cleaner line have had high rate of return, bring into question the compani sale figures. 
 problem with faulti belts, weak suction, or other flaw have led to return rate as high as 30% to 50% on certain models, some retail said.target stores, a subsidiari of dayton hudson corp., said in the last month it drop one regina line becaus of custom complaints. 
 the plaintiff in the suit, which seek class-act status, are identifi as investor who bought regina stock between juli 19 -- when the compani releas result for it year end june 30 -- and sept. 20, when regina told analyst that first-quart result would be lower than expected.th major of the return problem seem to be with the housekeep vacuum line, which was introduc in 1986 and sell for $59 to $79, and the 1987 housekeep plus line, which sell for about $100 to $150. 
 but the old 1000 machin was discontinu last month, he said, and regina is in the process of introduc a new version.mr. dorn ad that other regina line haven't had such high rate of return. 
 offici at both compani said a return rate of as high as even 3% would be consid caus for alarm.a target store spokesman said the 332-store chain discontinu regina housekeep plus 5000 line, an updat and more expens offer than the housekeep 1000, after "at least half" were returned. 
 lucas, with automotive, industri and aerospac interests, has annual revenu exceed $3 billion.allied-signal, base in morri township, n.j., said in march that it plan to shed utica as part of a reorgan of it aerospac lines. 
 but a recent case suggest patent can be obtain quick enough to deter ripoffs.it took onli nine month for avia group international, a unit of reebok intern ltd., to get a patent on a line of run shoes. 
 backlog stand at two year or more for mani new aircraft models.th compani whole aerospac segment, both commerci and militari lines, account for 73% of last year sales. 
 the purchas price was increas from $26 million, a sum on which the compani agre earlier this month.car care market car-wax product under the rain danc and ralli brand names, and a line of engin addit and perform chemic under the no. 7 label. 
 the small health and beauti aid concern said it file list asset of $1.6 million and liabil of $1.2 million.it said it will continu to sell it line of solid perfumes, dispos thermomet and other products. 
 "the micro channel is our strategy," said bill lowe, the head of ibm pc division."we'v been consist say that sinc april 1987," when the ps/2 line was introduced. 
 "if we kept chang directions, i could see peopl question that."a new machin without micro channel would be signific becaus the micro channel is the ingredi in ibm ps/2 line that it has promot heavili as the major technolog improv over earlier pcs. 
 that becaus the intel 80386-sx is more power than the 80286 use in the recent unveil machine, even though the micro channel is suppos to be best-suit for power machines.ibm defend say the compani is mere tri to get back into a part of the market that it abandon too quick when it introduc the ps/2 line a year and a half ago. 
 "is it $3.50, $2.50, a dollar, is it negative?" he asked.mr. sheelen has been a visibl and outspoken salesman for regina, often boast that the compani would becom the leader of the $700 million vacuum-clean market by 1989, overtak household name hoover co., a unit of chicago pacif corp. regina had tradit been known as a market of lightweight "stick" cleaners, or electr brooms, but under mr. sheelen direct the compani has begun market a broad line of appliances. 
 coburn optic industri inc., a tulsa, okla., subsidiari of the british concern pilkington plc, say u.s. sale have risen 50% in each of the past three years.th compani recent introduc a new line of magnifi with thicker handl so that user with arthriti can hold them easily. 
 gm new companywid program, call smartleas and offer through general motor accept corp., replac a patchwork of leas program offer through gm six vehicl market divisions.to launch smartlease, and to give a shove to 1989 model sales, gm said it is offer special leas discount of as much as $1,300 over four year on about 20 car and truck line through dec. 31. 
  mattel inc., hawthorne, calif., name joseph s. whitak as senior vice president, marketing, with respons for it line of boy toys. 
 car market as the geo metro is have alter the way the epa break down the fuel-economi lists.becaus of the increas number of auto line that spring, as the geo metro does, from u.s.-foreign joint ventures, the epa no longer bother to compil it list of the most fuel-effici u.s. cars. 
 light truck are among the most profit vehicl built, with an averag gross profit margin of 39% on each one sold, compar with an averag of 35% on each car. (they are of particular import to chrysler.sal of light trucks, includ it jeep line of vehicl and it minivans, make up 60% of the compani pretax profits.) 
 compaq comput corp. introduc a smaller version of one of it power desktop comput at a reduc price, a move aim at head off potenti competit from intern busi machin corp., analyst said.th announc surpris mani industri observers, who had expect compaq to unveil it long-await line of laptop computers. 
 sept. 24-nov. 27.guggenheim museum, manhattan: "andi warhol, cars" -- the 35 paint and 12 draw on view are part of an extens seri of work that was to depict a centuri of automot histori base on the mercedes-benz line. 
 bob koski was name to the newli creat post of presid of christian dior sportswear & accessories, a divis of this apparel company.mr. kosky, 39 year old, had been presid of the men knitwear lines. 
 industri execut had expect the top job to go to william c. lowe, the presid of ibm pc division.industri execut and secur analyst have said mr. lowe, who was larg respons for ibm entri into the pc busi seven year ago, gambl and lost by prematur kill off ibm at line and tri to get custom to switch to the ps/2 line of person computers. 
 industri execut and secur analyst have said mr. lowe, who was larg respons for ibm entri into the pc busi seven year ago, gambl and lost by prematur kill off ibm at line and tri to get custom to switch to the ps/2 line of person computers.whil ibm consist has said it is pleas with the ps/2 line, a group of it competitor announc last week that it was produc a comput design to compet with the ps/2 design. 
 by april, suzuki expect to ship 20,000 of the car and 30,000 of the sport-util vehicl to the u.s.vers of both vehicl will be import by general motor corp. for it new geo line. 
 chrysler corp. said it will boost product of it profit jeep line of vehicl 20% in 1989, spend $24 million on plant improv and ad 575 workers. 
 cosmet giant este lauder inc. is make it first foray into region market with an unusu strategi to sell product design specif for the west coast and japan.th cosmet compani arami divis plan to launch a line of men fragranc next month -- call new west -- that will be sold in california for six months, and then market in japan. 
 chrysler corp. said it will boost product of it profit jeep line of vehicl 20% in 1989, spend $24 million on plant improv and ad 575 workers.sal of light trucks, includ the popular jeep line of sport-util vehicl and pickups, make up more than two-third of the highland park, mich., auto maker pretax profit. 
 "like a pirat ship with a hundr guns, hallmark armi of lawyer are tri to prove that might make right."th disput develop when hallmark produc a line of card similar to those of blue mountain -- both featur watercolor decor and long free-vers poetri with most person messages. 
 analyst said digit will have a problem tri to sell both the workstat base on the mip microprocessor and it older workstations, which are far less powerful."when they introduc a line, it will wipe out their vaxstat family," said ms. brown. 
 a good exampl is it juli purchas of cessna fluid power divis from general dynam corp.th unit, with annual sale of about $100 million, fill out eaton hydraul product line and provid an entri into europ hydraul business. 
 bever hill high school is hope that consum will jump at the chanc to wear the school toni name on their tanktop and shorts.a new line of sportswear and athlet wear, emblazon with the school "bhhs" logo, was introduc at a trade show friday in los angeles.th line, which will start appear in upscal store this holiday season at price between $20 and $90 per article, is the result of a licens agreement that the bever hill board of educ sign last year with twentieth centuri fox film corp., grant the entertain compani exclus right to the bever hill high school trademark. 
 the district will get 60% of the royalti from the licens arrangement.th clothing, made by great southern co., macon, ga., come in a rainbow of "trendi yet unique" colors, includ bright orange, hot pink, turquois and chartreuse, said shannon richey of san diego-bas luca enterpris inc., which is help to market and promot the line. 
 posh perfum are go to the dogs.snooti scent inc. of houston is sell a line of dog shampoo and condition that it claim smell like obsession, giorgio, polo and aramis. 
 mani in the industri had expect the vacanc to be fill by william c. lowe, the presid of ibm pc division, and say ibm decis will be a referendum on his performance.ulr weil, a princip at weil & associates, a research firm said he believ mr. low didn't get the job becaus the execut had prematur kill off ibm at line and tri to get custom to switch to the ps/2 line of person computers, introduc a year and a half ago. 
 ibm declin to confirm or deni that mr. gerstner was be transferred.it has consist said, however, that it is pleas with the progress of the ps/2 line of person computers. 
 the product rate could be cut back by near half, without jeopard commit it has with certain manufactur plant to buy approxim 2.3 million pair of shoe a month from them, mr. jacobson said."nik has upscal all of it line," said alic a. ruth, an industri analyst for montgomeri securities, san francisco. 
 in last year second half, reebok net was about $83 million.th earn declin also rais question of whether reebok is lose even more ground to arch rival nike inc. reebok overtook nike in sale in 1986 but has recent seen nike air shoe line erod it market share, accord to peopl familiar with reebok. 
 the compani product perform 3-d graphic for workstations, primarili use in the manufacturing, scientif and engin markets.ibm, armonk, n.y., will most like use the technolog in it ibm pc-rt line of technic workstations. 
 the 2200-600 model will be rough twice as power as those of the 1100-90 model they replace, the execut said.that will make them the most power in the mainfram line that came from sperri corp., which merg with burrough corp. two year ago to form unisys. 
 onc a neglig presenc in the u.s., the maker of chemicals, pharmaceut and fiber has quick establish itself in the u.s. chemic market through sizabl acquisitions.ov the past two years, it has bought the agricultur chemic busi of union carbid corp. for $575 million and a basic chemic line from imperi chemic industri plc for $505 million. 
 as an unprofit busi now, analyst estim it will sell for about $500 million -- or about half it annual revenue.th compani may also be consid write off the low-margin products, such as smaller tv sets, and find a joint ventur partner to help build up the more profit lines, such as large-screen project tvs. 
 when hallmark former agency, young & rubicam inc., began use emot advertis for it client american telephon & telegraph co., hallmark saw that as a conflict of interest and drop the agency.includ in the review will be hallmark lower-pr ambassador line of cards, which ogilvy, an ogilvi group inc. unit, has advertis sinc 1981. 
 this year redesign of the devill and fleetwood seri is more significant.th two model line are expect to account for about 64% of the 261,000 car cadillac expect to sell in the 1989 model-year. 
 the chevi nova, for example, becom the geo prizm, and like the other it will be sold exclus through about 80% of chevrolet 5,000 or so u.s. dealers.th introduct of the geo line mark the most ambiti attempt ever by detroit to succeed at someth that has larg elud the big three for 30 years: market so-cal captiv import -- vehicl made by a foreign compani and sold through domest dealerships. 
 the car won't go on sale until may, so chevi offici didn't say much about it.but they did say that the lumina name will go on a line of vehicl -- includ a coup and a sleek styled, plastic-bodi minivan -- that they expect will be one of the divis most popular vehicl in the 1990s. 
 famili often shun two-door car becaus it more difficult to get children into and out of the back seats.th famili focus for the line is one of the reason chevrolet decid to includ under the lumina umbrella it new minivan, nicknam apv (for all-purpos vehicle), which won't be avail until next june. 
 in establish product with consumers, he said, it easier to focus ad dollar and market effort if there onli one name to promote.chevrolet is use the same approach with it geo line of import car that debut this fall. 
 scientif micro system inc. said it sold, for about $10 million, most of the asset of it supermac technolog divis to a group led by the divis management.th divis make and market enhanc for appl comput inc. macintosh line of person computers. 
 reebok has gone outsid for market talent at a time when competit is increasing.nik inc., it chief rival, is hot on it heels, with the success of it air shoe line. 
 playtex famili make playtex tampons, dispos nursers, glove and tek toothbrushes.th hair-car unit, jhirmack inc., make a line of hair-car product sold in salon and pharmacies. 
 hyundai motor america said it rais the base price on it line of 1989 excel subcompact model as much as 3.4%. 
 armor all, an irvine, calif., maker of automotive-car products, said it will financ the acquisit initi from a combin of cash reserv and short-term borrowings.borden car care divis market car wax product under the rain danc and ralli brand names, and a line of engin addit and perform chemic under the no. 7 label. 
 motorola inc. and five of it former top semiconductor engin who it su last week for misappropri confidenti inform reach a preliminari agreement that could result in the settlement of the lawsuit.accord to a file with a texa state court in austin, the five employe who now work for ross technolog inc. of austin, agre to refrain from use or share technic and market inform about motorola line of microprocessor chips. 
 mr. harrison said mccormick doesn't have a specif target in mind.but he indic that the most like type of candid would fit with mccormick retail or consumer-brand products, which includ major line of spice and sauc mixes. 
 sourc close to both compani say that ibm has agre to licens some softwar technolog from next, includ the so-cal graphic user interfac that control the on-screen appear of the next comput and make it easier to use than some others.th sourc said ibm would like to use the softwar on it rt famili of technic workstations, a line that has been a sluggish seller so far in a market that itself is the fastest grow segment of the comput industry. 
 terri pillow, 35 year old, was name presid of chap by ralph lauren, one of this apparel compani lines. 
 georg ackerman resign the posit to pursu other interests.mr. pillow had been execut vice presid of merchandis for the apparel line. 
 although the risk mr. canion face are big, so are the potenti benefits."compaq would be the big winner" if the effort succeeds, say charl wolf, an analyst at first boston corp. notabl bearish on compaq after ibm introduc the ps/2 line, he now view the compani outlook as bright: "with their distribut and marketing, they would be the high-end leader in the marketplace. 
 in the latest nine months, rockwel had net incom of $626 million, or $2.34 a share, on sale of $8.79 billion.sal from the automot line of rockwell, base in el segundo, calif., will jump to $2.1 billion from last year record $1.7 billion, he said, ad that the compani view the growth of it auto busi as "substanti progress we are make in replac b-1b sale and earnings." 
 but both side agre that the new pc war could confus their custom and hurt everyon sales.a string of new pc product was introduc by ibm in a bid to beef up it person comput line. 
 mr. sugar comment came at a news confer yesterday to introduc a new rang of amstrad person computers.contrari to prior press reports, the new machin aren't fulli compat with industri leader intern busi machin corp. new line of person system/2 person computers. 
 the unit will sell air condition to ge and other custom under privat label as well as the fedders, airtemp and climatrol brands.fedd make a broad line of room air conditioners. 
 a lot of user were still tri to figur out just what differ ibm micro channel make when rumor began circul last month about a person comput come from big blue that won't have the vaunt micro channel.ibm has also been trumpet anoth new way to stay on the cut edg of pc technology: take out the old softwar at the heart of your machin (dos) and replac it with a new program (os/2 -- not to be confus with ps/2, the name of ibm new line of person computers). 
 this spring just two compani -- tandi corp. and dell comput corp. -- introduc ps/2 clones.lik parent of a new babi anxious not to upset their older child, they both declar that their ps/2 look-alik were great products, but not so great that their clone of the old ibm pc line wouldn't still be big sellers. 
 moreover, pc add-on boards, use increas to add speed and functions, have to fit whatev bus is insid a machine.ibm will also be make news today (just a crosstown bus away from the gang of nine) when it unveil the latest addit to it ps/2 line. 
 in the past that strategi has made busi nervous about buy appl maverick machines.but now appl can point to the scuffl go on in the ibm world as a reason to opt for the more stabl macintosh line. 
 mattel inc. is prepar to flood the countri with 582 million store-redeem coupon this fall as the centerpiec of a new market campaign.th coupon offer discount of $1 to $5 on toy includ barbi and other dolls, hot wheel speed shift 500 race sets, tv play-along wheel of fortun games, and a new line of disney infant and preschool toys. 
 other analysts, though, stress that the coupon concept may need fine-tuning."barbi is red hot and hot wheel has emerg as one of the fastest sell toy line in the country," say paul valentin of standard & poor corp., note that parent alway seem will to pay a premium for the hottest toys. 
 kayser-roth hosieri inc. plan to unveil today a new brand of pantyhos that it hope will lure department-stor shopper into the supermarket to buy their dressi nylons.cal burlington sheer indulgence, the hosieri line is an attempt to develop a new nich and bring some excit to the sag pantyhos market. 
 sheer indulg will be sold in food, drug and discount store and will be promot as "department-stor qualiti at afford prices."th line is price between $2.25 to $4.40, which kayser-roth say put it about 20% abov such mass-market pantyhos brand as it own no nonsens and sara lee corp. l'eggs, but about 20% less than sara lee hane and other department-stor brands. 
 david b. jones, chief execut offic of holiday homewood suit unit, said the compani has sign contract with franchise this year to develop 55 extended-stay hotels, which are expect to start open next summer.h predict holiday line would grow more rapid than marriott becaus holiday plan to reli on franchise to develop 80% of it extended-stay hotels. 
 seagram said dividend incom from it 22.9% stake in du pont was $52 million for the quarter and $98.5 million for the six months.th compani beverag line includ distil spirits, wines, wine and spirit cooler and juices. 
 "gm has lost market share in everi market segment in which it competes," said ronald a. glantz, an analyst with montgomeri secur in san francisco.h said gm success this year with it chevrolet beretta and corsica compact car seem to have come at the expens of it other car lines, includ it new intermediates, the pontiac grand prix, buick regal and oldsmobil cutlass supreme. 
 after month of hesitation, the european person comput industri is gear up to clone intern busi machin corp. struggl new line of person computers. 
 after month of hesitation, the european person comput industri is gear up to clone intern busi machin corp. struggl new line of person computers.start this week with the announc by britain apricot comput plc, most of europ major personal-comput maker are expect to unveil plan to sell machin compat with ibm person system/2 line. 
 the ibm spokesman ad that the european product announc confirm the compani view that ps/2 "is the way forward for our custom into 1990s."ibm launch the ps/2 line to regain market share lost to u.s., european and asian clone of it pc and at lines. 
 but expert say that program trade of the kind that contribut to the volatil of the new york stock market dure the octob crash is still a long way off.japanes brokerag firm are yet not allow to hook up direct comput line to the tokyo stock exchange. 
 the group is expect to develop what it hope will becom a standard "bus," the compon that handl the communic flow insid a computer, let the central processor talk to the keyboard, the floppi disk and so forth.th ibm rival are expect to argu that their bus will provid all the advantag of ibm micro channel bus, which, though arcane, the compani has market hard as the major innov of it ps/2 line. 
 eric zimits, an analyst with morgan keegan & co., said the compani has a 50% share of that market, and deriv more than 70% of it profit from it."ther has been a lot of specul that the irma line is due for obsolescence," said mr. zimits. 
 to be sure, a few compani are tri to use the olymp to make the transit from a subcontractor to an intern known brand.kukj corp. shift from produc nike shoe to develop it own pro-spec line of athlet shoe five year ago. 
 the effort, a major challeng to ibm, will includ compaq and tandy.europ comput industri is set to begin clone ibm struggl new line of person computers. 
 this is a big week for sun microsystem inc., as more chip and comput manufactur sign on to sun grand plan to establish a high-perform comput design standard for the industri to clone.today, sun and texa instrument inc. will outlin a sweep technolog licens agreement under which texa instrument chip divis will manufactur sun high-perform sparc microprocessor and it comput system divis will begin use the sparc chip to power a new line of computers. 
 chrysler corp. is attempt to jump-start the sluggish sale of it eagl premier luxuri car by boost cash incent 25% to $750.the move come at a time when rebat on most car are be reduced, and thus reflect the difficulti chrysler has face sinc late last year with the flagship of the new eagl line. 
 recently, mr. taki said he will invest in anoth seventh avenu designer, jeffrey banks, a 34-year-old menswear design who has run his own struggl busi sinc 1985.mr. bank chief success so far came when he was head design of merona sport sportswear, a hot-sel line of bold color knit weekend cloth that becam as trendi in the earli 1980s as jog suit onc were. 
 term of the agreement weren't disclosed.th first product introduc under the program will be a line of men and women sportswear, which will make it debut next march. 
 the masson reposit is the latest attempt by a major vintner to appeal to wine drinker increas sophist palates.earli this year, for example, no. 2-rank heublein inc., own by grand metropolitan inc., introduc a line call sylvan spring and is now roll out navall select to expand it presenc in fight varietals. 
 as the capac util figur indicate, the american economi is terrif at production.however, onc a product is off the line and in the hand of a customer, it seem that all too often the system break down. 
 within days, prime minist noboru takeshita felt compel to apolog for his country.but for sanrio, which produc and market the sambo caricatur as the design on a best-sel line of toy and beachwear, the consequ were more tangibl and potenti more lasting. 
 then came a secur and exchang commiss investig of the compani disclosur of certain financi information.later, it was the delay of a much-herald comput line. 
 xtc product inc., a larchmont, n.y., toy maker, file suit in new york, charg walt disney co. and dover handbag co. with trademark infringement.sinc 1983, xtc has market a line of soft toy under the trademark hugg-a-planet. 
 the valu of beatric asset sold so far, about $8 billion, still doesn't equal the amount investor paid for the company.donald p. kelly, beatric chairman, has auction off 10 major businesses, includ the compani coca-cola bottler and tropicana juic lines, in an effort to break even. 
 a special dividend may help save kohlberg kravi from possibl investor critic that it overpaid for beatrice.a year ago, some beatric insid boast that by sell off beatric remain major busi -- it line of hunt tomato products, wesson cook oil and swift meat -- the investor would earn a pre-tax profit that could exceed $3 billion. 
 the compani hope to get feder clearanc later this year to begin human test of the melanin skin cream and to invad the $300 million-a-year sun-screen market in 1990."we'r develop a new line of skin protect base on melanin produc by genet engineering," say sergio nacht, vice presid for research and develop and a biochemist who has special in dermatolog research. 
 the washington-bas consum group said it rank were base on inform compil by the depart of transport but not wide disseminated.th group analysi show general tire ameri classic line should last between 66,000 and 70,000 miles, depend on the size of the tire. 
 in fact, some of the tire that rank low in the center studi are special design for better handl and are use primarili in motor-rac sports.for instance, at the bottom of the center list were goodrich t/a r and r1 line made by uniroy goodrich tire co., akron, and yokohama tire co. a001r/a008r. 
 the center said neither tire should last more than 10,000 mile on average.but a spokeswoman at uniroy goodrich said it t/a r and r1 line are essenti road-rac tire that aren't expect to last long. 
 she said the tire are shave to low tread depth for competition.japan yokohama couldn't be reached, but industri expert said it a001r/a008r line also is a racing-styl tire. 
 armstrong is a unit of the pirelli group of italy.however, a spokesman for armstrong in new haven, conn., said the studi appar was base on date information, explain that it tru trac line was phase out in earli 1986 and replac with a line call coronet ultra trac, which was rate in the studi to last between 40,000 and 44,000 miles.anoth armstrong line cite in the studi was discontinu in 1984, the armstrong spokesman said. 
 oper system are program that control the inner work of computers.th new digit product further extend the compani line of equip base on the ultrix oper system, which util a standard develop by american telephon & telegraph co. that has been wide adopt in the industry. 
 for the full year 1987 the compani earn $16.8 million on $366 million in sales.dur the latest six month period, the compani said it had a 30% increas in unit volum in women apparel and children wear, as well as some select price increas in women jeans, sale from a new menswear line, and the open of addit retail stores. 
 kitchen applianc that hang below wall cabinet are market as space savers, so the thinner they look, the better.black & decker inc. new spacemak plus line is inde thin -- some applianc measur less than half the height of the model they replace. 
 but clever design make them appear even thinner than they are.thi week the line of appliances, which includ a coffe maker, can open with option knife-sharpen and a task light, won the industri design excel award in the "product" categori from the industri design societi of america. 
 the compani said it was the largest first-custom shipment of a multius system in it history.a previous reported, the new as/400 line is part of the comput giant bid to regain domin in the midrang comput market. 
 the new line merg the ibm system 36 and system 38 machines.do so remov the incompat between two of the three major minicomput line that ibm sells. 
 hallmark card inc., kansa city, mo., said it has petit the suprem court of the u.s. to overturn an appel court decis that has temporarili enjoin the firm from sell greet card that resembl those of a small colorado concern.hallmark had been su by blue mountain art inc. of boulder, colo., for trademark violations, contend that hallmark person touch line of card was too similar to blue mountain art products. 
 advertising: ingalls, quinn & johnson said it was design by gillett co. to handl the advertis and promot support for the test market of a new line of skin care product call myoko. 
 mr. kelli compens and share of the profit is more than $16 million, accord to beatric documents.littl remain of beatric except it line of hunt tomato products, wesson cook oil and swift meats. 
 a spokesman for the judg said friday that she had approv the transaction.th line and the factori where they are produc are be sold to hasbro inc. and slm action sport inc. 
 the reagan administration, however, isn't complet satisfi with such disclaimers.u.s. offici are check to see whether some japanes produc are quiet stash away chip for new comput line and not report these inventori to the miti. 
 in the past two years, textron has set up a new manag team for gorham, consolid some of it oper and elimin some of it unprofit items, such as stuf teddi bear and coffe cups, which it sold for sever manufacturers.textron said the trimmed-down line now concentr sole on the product and sale of silver spoons, fine dinnerware, lead crystal and silverpl holloware, for which it is best known. 
 mitsubishi motor sale of america rais by as much as 3.4% the base price of it galant and mirag car lines. 
 the price on the galant four-door automatic-transmiss model rose 3.4% to $11,819 from $11,429.the compani also said it rais price on it mirag line by 3% across the board, includ a $350 price increas to $11,969 on it most expens mirage, the turbo-charg hatchback model. 
 person comput industri execut are expect intern busi machin corp. to bring out soon a new microcomput with a design similar to the one ibm supersed with much fanfar last year.th move would be a surpris becaus ibm has been noisili tout the new design, which it call the micro channel, insid it 16-month-old ps/2 line of person computers. 
 but he said he never indic that had to happen at the same time a low-end machin got the 80286 central processor, to improv upon the less power 8086 processor these machin now use.th 80286 is current use in the middl of the ps/2 line and in the past was use in make the ibm pc-at. 
 ibm has alreadi prepar the market for a new, low-end person computer.it said earlier this year it intend to bring out a low-cost ps/2 built around intel corp. 80286 chip, which is current at the heart of the machin in the middl of the ps/2 line. 
 the distribut chain are long, the price are high and supermarket are reluct to handl high perish items."in the u.s., there realli isn't a well-organ refriger truck and warehous system -- how will they find the distribut capabl to support their king store with the st. michael line?" ask willard bishop, a supermarket consultant. 
 he adds: "peopl would be do much more of this if they could figur out how to bring it to market broadly."indeed, campbel last year withdrew it fresh chef line of refriger sauces, soup and salad from nation distribut after incur substanti losses, while general food culinova line of upscal entre is bare hang on. 
 although mr. sculley may be reinvent apple, it isn't clear whether his organiz chang and newfound vision will result in new breakthrough products.so far, the compani has been make the most of the macintosh and appl ii lines, both offspr of the job years. 
 kati industri inc. said that it complet the previous announc sale of it missouri-kansas-texa railroad unit to union pacif corp. and that it plan to record a gain of about $81 million, or $12.93 a share, on the sale in the third quarter.sel the 3,000-mile system, common known as the kati line, will enabl kati to focus on it consum product and industri machineri operations. 
 a trw inc. unit told paccar to suspend deliveri of paccar peterbilt and kenworth truck becaus of potenti defect in trw power-st mechanism.th two truck line repres about 80% of paccar sales. 
 in some of their current operations, they'v focus on auto repair and mainten products, realiz consum are keep their car longer.they are like to sell interco apparel manufactur and general retail operations, includ such line as london fog rain gear and convers and florsheim shoes. 
 turbin servic part made from the drawings, valu by ge at about $6 million, must be lock up in a bond warehous for five years.and turbin servic is prohibit from deal in part for sever line of gas turbin for five to 10 years. 
 for example, the lowest price 1989 pontiac grand prix will cost $13,899, up 10.8%, or $1,360, from the 1988 base model price of $12,539.the grand prix, the best-sel of gm new line of midsiz cars, will now have air condit as standard equipment. 
 in addition, it has notifi dealer not to sell paccar truck produc sinc april.paccar declin to estim how much the recal would affect it profitability, but the two truck line account for about 80% of the compani sales. 
 under the pact, fujitsu estim it will sell between 25,000 and 30,000 sun workstations, with about 90% of the sale in japan.th pact also allow fujitsu, japan largest comput supplier, to enhanc it exist line of microcomputers, minicomputers, workstat and mainfram with product from sun sun-3 and sun-4 workstat families. 
 atari corp. report strong second-quart profit from it comput and video lines, but they were part offset by unexpect high loss from it feder group unit, which it acquir last year. 
 sale for the period jump to $164.6 million from $70.7 million a year ago.th compani said it comput and video line perform strongly, as expected, but that it result were hurt by it feder group operations, a string of consum electron store it acquir last october. 
 nord resourc corp., dayton, ohio, said it will spend $30 million to expand it jeffersonville, ga., plant to make sever new product for it line of paper fill and coat clays. 
 even with the u.s. action, though, industri offici say shortag of the chip are like to continu becaus current product capac is insuffici to meet an unanticip surg in u.s. demand for the advanc chips.on the suppli side, the shortag are caus main by quality-control problem encount by japan nec corp. on it new dram line and hitachi ltd. slow recoveri from an earthquak in japan that damag one of it chip plants. 
 execut at k mart corp. were surpris last year when martha stewart, an author of book on lavish cook and entertaining, show them she could set an eleg tabl from item sold at the compani discount stores."w couldn't believ it was our merchandise," recal michael wellman, the compani vice presid of marketing, who is now work with mrs. stewart to develop an exclus line of household good for k mart. 
 mr. antonini say the compani suffer from a "malaise" becaus it had expand so much that it "growth opportun might appear to be limited."mr. antonini, who revit the compani apparel oper by introduc the jaclyn smith line in 1985, is tri to chang that, part by enlarg k mart store and play catch-up in computerization. 
 "that the custom we felt we were not serv proper before," say mr. wellman, the market vice president.aim at that market, k mart plan earli next year to start sell an exclus line of stylish kitchen, bedroom and bath item bear mrs. stewart name. 
 the plan to test as mani as 40 mckid specialti store in shop mall over the next two year is part of a broader effort by sear to revit it sag retail operations.th mckid store will carri nation brand as well as an exclus line of mckid cloth and toys. 
 price will be in the "moderate" to "upper moderate" range, the spokesman said.th mckid store concept is an outgrowth of sear success arrang with oak brook, ill.-bas mcdonald to licens a mckid cloth line now sold in 750 of it 821 sear stores.th line, which was introduc in 1987, is expect to generat sale of $175 million this year. 
 it also is tri to improv logist and make product more effici to compet better with german counterparts.it set up manufactur in local market with local designers, includ some lower-pr lines, instead of concentr main on make cloth in itali for export. 
 and it look to new markets, such as the soviet union and china, where potenti is huge but initi invest can be small.found in 1868 as a maker of ready-to-wear clothing, gft by 1987 made 60 differ line of clothes, includ some of it own design, which it distribut in 70 countries. 
 mccormick & co. is repackag it entir line of spice and seasonings, toss out it familiar red and white tin for fancy-label plastic bottles. 
 still, mccormick expect to rake in $15 million to $20 million in busi from new grocery-stor account this year.robert wunderle, a spokesman for woodbridge, n.j.-base supermarket general corp., call the line "much improved." 
 prime motor inn drop 1 3/8 to 34 3/8.montgomeri secur lower it estim of the compani 1989 net incom to $2.50 a share from $2.65 on a fulli dilut basis, cite an expect drop in interest incom as a result of the compani plan for fund the develop of a new line of hotels. 
 the group said sale of softwar for person comput made by intern busi machin corp. and compat makers, rose 44% to $1.39 billion, account for 76% of the market.sal of softwar for appl comput inc. macintosh line rose 130% to $192.3 million or 10.6% of the industry. 
 but can ge?crit say the fallout from mr. welch swap last year of ge consumer-electron busi for the medical-equip line of paris-bas thomson illustr the price ge pay for his style. 
 ltv also took a $30 million special charg on it exit from the medium and heavi militari truck business.ltv announc last month that it am general divis would discontinu those line so it could concentr on it u.s. armi contract for the hummer high mobil vehicle, which will be open for a rebid next year. 
 a consumer-health group accus an rjr nabisco inc. unit of mislead consum about the content of a popular line of fruit drinks. 
 a consumer-health group accus an rjr nabisco inc. unit of mislead consum about the content of a popular line of fruit drinks.th center for scienc in the public interest said it ask the food and drug administr to order the del mont food unit to chang the name of it fruit blend line. 
 it featur mani of the new york area lead politician and media figures, but mix up their job and genealog to such an extent that part of the fun is figur out exact who is who."famili politics" tell the stori of the surviv remnant of the daley family, the maker of a notabl line of car whose busi has fallen into disrepair and whose member are fall into the kind of financi condit that onli the wealthi could consid poverty-stricken. 
 ibm rais price on such product as operating-system software, which control the basic oper of a computer, and on big disk drives, which store data for mainfram and big minicomputers.th armonk, n.y., compani also rais price on it 9370 line of minicomputers, even though they have gotten off to a slow start, and on maintenance, even though competit for mainten contract has been particular fierce. 
 still, there were some notabl absenc from ibm list of price increases.pric weren't chang for ibm new mainfram models, it new as/400 minicomput line or most person computers. 
 a usg spokesman said the busi to be sold "don't fit in with {usg's} core businesses" and don't meet "minimum margin requirements."usg consid it gypsum, ceiling-til and dap repair and remodel line as well as it wallboard distribut busi as core operations, the spokesman said. 
 amdahl corp., play tit for tat with arch-riv intern busi machin corp., said it lop off 10% to 14% from the price of it mainfram computers.a previous reported, last week, armonk, n.y.-bas ibm unveil a new line of aggress price mainfram machin in a bid to undersel feisti amdahl. 
 use other data on her color and age, the comput produc printout with color recommend for "casual," "polished" and "evening" looks.noxel corp., which alreadi has computers, recent start an ad campaign for it clarion cosmet line that tout the machin abil to make the "right" choice. 
 no one, however, is predict a resurg in generic food -- the plain-labeled, cut-rat product that took over aisl of space in some supermarket dure the inflation-ridden 1970s.while such line will continu to be offer in relat small section of most stores, consult expect that consum will instead be look to an increas number of low-pric name brand and hous brand -- product that are cheaper than heavili advertis top brand but seem to offer compar quality. 
 beyond score point in that public-imag battle, ibm new line, the 3090 model s, is intend to give custom the improv in price and perform they expect everi coupl of years.th armonk, n.y., compani last overhaul it mainfram line in januari 1987. 
 ibm unveil a line of mainfram comput in a bid to win back market ground lost to rival amdahl. 
 the 1988 taurus and sabl model aren't affect becaus their gas tank are of a differ design, the spokesman said.thi is the latest in a seri of qualiti embarrass to hit the taurus-s line, launch in the 1986 model year. 
 last summer, the taurus and sabl model were includ in a recal of 4.3 million ford vehicl to correct fuel-lin defect link to 230 engin fires.ford has conduct five other safety-rel recal affect smaller number of the taurus and sabl line, as well as four recal to fix problem not relat to safety, a compani spokesman said. 
 retail thought the chang -- to bolder colors, busier pattern and higher price -- too much for the arrow man.for the most part, they reject the new sport shirt line, forc cluett to unload much of it to discount at fire-sal prices. 
 that lower west point net incom from continu oper to $7.5 million, or 25 cent a share, from $11.6 million, or 38 cent a share, in the year-earli quarter.cluett had transform much of it normal classic, plain-vanilla, mid-pric line of sport shirt into thread it hope would draw a younger, more affluent buyer.norm safe shade of blues, brown and gray becam more vibrant, and the spring line of arrow sport shirt includ a mix of bolder primari colors, busi stripe and multi-color madras. 
 moreover, in the confus follow the takeover, the design becam isol not onli from arrow custom but also from the compani own sale staff.last spring and summer, as they were creat the bolder spring line, the design fail to notic that both retail and consum were becom more conservative. 
 that shift intensifi after last octob stock market crash.cluett "seem to have had the line misstrip and miscolored," say an execut at a rival, who credit cluett mistak for a 15% to 20% rise in his own sales. 
 moreover, say cluett executives, the design skimp on quality.for one thing, the higher-pr shirt in the line didn't look much differ from their less-expens counterparts, say harold streitman, cluett new design director for sportswear. 
 and manag are on the lookout for nich markets.an example: cluett is talk about develop for the first time a line of shirt to be sold onli in california and florida. 
 but mani doubt it can beat out four japanes rivals, who control the market.moreover, sinc mr. mcgovern took over, the compani has crank out hundr of new product and line extens to cut it relianc on soup, which provid 30% of sales.but some like fresh chef, a line of refriger products, have been cost flops. 
 tandi corp., fort worth, texas, introduc four comput that beef up it person comput line. 
 the new 4000 lx use a faster version of the chip and will sell for $3,999, the compani said.tandi also ad a new comput use the 80286 microchip to it line. 
 toto, however, is go to give it a try.th compani doesn't have much to show for it 20-year presenc in the u.s., so it think a product that set it line off from the run-of-the-mil porcelain fixtur might be the key to success. 
 sales, which plummet to $8 million last year from near $35 million in 1984, are expect to hit $12 million this year and more than $20 million in 1989.less than a year ago, mr. kramer was import about 60% of his line to surviv and brace for the end. 
 the indianapoli compani was form last fall after ransburg corp. decid to pull the plug on it loss-ridden industri robot business.two entrepreneur acquir a line of ransburg weld robots. 
 miniscrib corp. said it reach an agreement call for computerland corp. to carri a line of miniscrib hard disk drive in it retail stores. 
 sale rose to $135.8 million from $63.2 million.ast cite it grow personal-comput lines. 
 the compani cite higher unit sale growth in most product lines, particular in intern markets; a weaker dollar, and inclus of the result of alkaril chemic ltd., which gaf acquir in the fourth quarter of 1987.earn from building-materi line fell 13% to $9.1 million, though sale rose 17% to $119.5 million. 
 develop of sophist comput data base is fuel telemarket growth, say the confer board earl bailey.briefs: a line of shoe for pregnant women from thorp shoe is call "o.b. 
 the compani bought back 21 million common share in a "dutch auction," and had 239.1 million share outstand as of june 30, compar with 250.9 million a year ago.oper profit in rjr food busi climb 14%, to $271 million from $238 million, spark by strong volum gain in the nabisco brand cooki and cracker line and in some of the specialti product of it groceri business. 
 american brand inc., old greenwich, conn., report second-quart earn rose 44% as sale advanc 27%, cite the strength in it core tobacco and distilled-spirit lines. 
 pfizer, new york, said sale rose 8.9% to $1.34 billion from $1.23 billion, reflect gain in all five of it busi segments.sal rose 9% for health-car lines, 13% for agriculture, 12% for consum products, 8% for materi scienc and 4% for specialti chemicals. 
 last year, the nation second-largest retail hire martha stewart, an author of book on lavish cook and entertaining, as a celebr spokeswoman.it is now develop an exclus line of household merchandis that bear her name. 
 it is now develop an exclus line of household merchandis that bear her name.chicago-bas sears, roebuck & co., meanwhile, is sell a line of mckid cloth under a licens arrang with mcdonald corp. and is develop other children product under a similar agreement with walt disney co. 
 a north carolina auto dealer plan to use the japanese-styl "hous call" method to sell toyota motor corp. new line of luxuri car in the u.s. 
 a north carolina auto dealer plan to use the japanese-styl "hous call" method to sell toyota motor corp. new line of luxuri car in the u.s.rick hendrick iii, who run one of the nation largest multifranchis "megadealerships" out of charlotte, n.c., said he plan to sell toyota new lexus line of upscal car by use the sale techniqu in some north and south carolina markets. 
 warner-lambert co., morri plains, n.j., said second-quart net incom grew 13%, reflect continu strength in it line of prescript and over-the-count pharmaceuticals, gum and mints. 
 storag technolog corp. said it unveil a new line of impact printer capabl of print between 2,100 and 5,000 line a minute. 
 mr. kobayashi say he hasn't had a vacat in 20 years.th major compani contract out their less-profit and specialti line to such "pappa-mamma" factories, which contitut more than half the industry. 
 hitachi say it alreadi lose money make appliances, and the whole industri "is veri exposed," say yutaka sugiyama, a nomura research analyst.battl the import invasion, japanes compani are move quick into high-tech, high-value-ad lines. 
 home shop network inc. said it hsn health care servic inc. unit has sign an agreement with spiegel inc. to joint market a line of vitamins, miner and other health-car products. 
 industri chemic profit rose 6% to $14.2 million from $13.3 million, while agricultur chemic profit more than doubl to $9.4 million from $4.5 million.plast profit remain flat becaus of the sale of the kydex rigid-sheet plastic line last year. 
 now the maker of beretta, the gun, are su the maker of beretta, the hot-sel car, for $250 million in damag in a trademark infring suit file yesterday in feder court in manhattan.fabbrica d'armi p. beretta s.p.a. said yesterday that gm use of the beretta name on a line of compact car "is an affront not onli to the beretta corporation, but also to the beretta family." 
 analyst said the test appear to be the most rigor competit test yet run.however, they note that ibm has recent introduc a line of midrang computers, the as/400, for which digit extrapol perform instead of measur actual machines. 
 boc group plc agre to buy the vacuum product divis of varian associ inc. for $65.8 million.th windlesham, england, maker of industri gase and health-car product said it will integr varian vacuum product line into boc edward high vacuum intern unit, base in london. 
 general motor corp. said it will lay off indefinit 800 employe at it doraville, ga., assembl plant -- a further indic of slow sale of an import line of new mid-siz cars. 
 however, the case has been cloud recent becaus kodak is seek to stay the infring rule on the ground that the judg had a potenti financi interest in the outcome.polaroid entri into the conventional-film busi will put it into competit with kodak in a major photographi market for the first time sinc kodak drop it instant camera line as a result of the patent decision. 
 daniel bricklin, who as the co-author of the visicalc softwar program help launch the person computer, said he is sell off his latest softwar line rather than build anoth company. 
 the payoff from this level of invest were obvious last year with attack -- an "enzymatic," concentr laundri deterg that took japan by storm, come out of nowher to give kao a 40.5% share of japan deterg market, up 7.1 percentag point from the year before.th focus on r&d is similar trumpet with kao bior line of skin ceam and it sofina cosmetics, both of which are expect to be broad market in the u.s. eventually. 
 whether or not kao product actual repres scientif breakthroughs, the compani has been abl to success market them in japan by sheer weight of advertis dollars.accord to tokyo-bas dentsu inc., the world biggest ad agency, kao spent 35.4 billion yen on advertis in it last fiscal year, put it ahead of toyota motor corp., nissan motor co., honda motor co. and lion corp., kao major competitor in some lines. 
 byte magazin pose that question to 5,000 attende of a recent trade show.th top vote-getter, with 32%: os/2, the system insid intern busi machin corp. new line of person computers.but dos, the system insid ibm previous line, trail close behind with 30%, suggest a big chunk of the industri is still resist ibm push for os/2. 
 such a reaction would be avoided, however, if onli the donor stem cell were transplanted.th stem cell wouldn't attack the recipi tissu but, instead, would migrat to various part of the recipi bodi and churn out a complet line of progeni blood cell that would be compat with the recipi body. 
 the rang of special servic now includ rack-and-pinon steer system maintenance, truck and van wheel alignment, fuel inject clean and suspens system repairs.to supplement it inexpensive, private-label line of cornel tire and to attract upscal customers, the compani now stock such brand as bridgestone, goodyear and goodrich.in addition, pep boy is carri raybestos, a more expens brand of brakes, and a line of lifetime-warranti part call true blue. 
 nissan motor corp. u.s.a. chose hill, holliday, connors, cosmopulo inc. friday to creat advertis for it new infin line of luxuri car that are schedul for introduct in 1989. 
 the agenc also "pick the brains" of sever journalist who write about cars, and conduct focus group in four differ market to explor consum feel about the import market, the spokesman said.nissan infin line will be anoth entrant in the increas crowd luxury-car market. 
 carter-wallac share amount to over 50% of the total market.when carter-wallace, a maker of pharmaceuticals, toiletri and cosmetics, acquir the trojan line from young drug product corp. back in 1985, condom sale were in the doldrums. 
 britain plan to elimin all glass contain from retail store by 1989 is spur demand for european plastic beverag containers, a market in which lawson mardon has a 42% share.mr. tapp said the rigid plastic group should continu to benefit from grow demand for it pet line of plastic containers, made from polyethylen terephthalate, which had sale of c$49 million last year. 
 in 1987, the group had oper incom of c$20.7 million on sale of c$224 million.mr. tapp said the group is emphas special products, such as it carden line of fold cartons, which combin plastic and cardboard materials. 
 eight of the farm credit system 12 region bank for cooper vote to merg into a singl nation bank with $9.3 billion in assets.th new consolid bank, which will begin oper jan. 1 in denver, will be author to provid a full line of financi servic to agricultur cooper and rural util anywher in the u.s. 
 the compani said the shortag hasn't interrupt shipment of exist products.a previous reported, however, hewlett-packard has delay sinc march introduct of a new model of it vectra line of offic person computers, "sole becaus we knew we wouldn't be abl to get suffici chip to produc it." 
 buick has offer option-packag discount on the third gm-10 model, the regal, for the past four months.th incent to spur sale of those new midsiz cars, consid crucial to gm turnaround in sales, come as the no. 1 auto maker is fine-tun incent across it model line to balanc expect demand with product plan for the rest of the model year. 
 apparently, the onli other rebat that match yugo in scale is audi of america inc. $4,000 rebat on it $22,180 audi 5000 models.that is an acknowledg fire-sal for a model scar by alleg of unintend acceleration, and the company, a unit of volkswagen ag, is discontinu that line. 
 "we'r so broad base across the economi that we just reflect what happening," mr. frankel said.aceto line of chemic use in dye and pigment have done "particular well this year," mr. frankel said, becaus of the strong demand for color ink use in magazin and newspapers. 
 he said the move was made possibl by technolog chang that allow for more autom of manufactur and caus a shrinkag in the size of the product be manufactured.a part of the consolidation, ibm will phase out it personal-comput manufactur oper in boca raton, fla., over the next 12 month and move them to raleigh, n.c., where the low-end model of ibm line are now produced. 
 hill holliday will be propel even further up in the rank of u.s. ad agenc if it win the $60 million account of los angeles-bas nissan motor corp. u.s.a. infin division.win would also take the sting from the agenc failur in may to captur general motor corp. $100 million account for it new saturn line. 
 mr. napl said he expect "pocket of strength and weaknesses" to continu in the busi dure the remain six months.h said the growth rate in budget furnitur has slow sinc last year, while this year growth rate in the x-acto line is stronger. 
 he said the compani is "veri interested" in ad appl macintosh comput product to it lineup eventually, but no talk with the manufactur about such an arrang are current under way.in addition, offer a line of copier machin and facsimil equip "would make sense," he said. 
 it consum food group report a 5.8% sale gain, to $3.56 billion, and pre-charg earn of $280.5 million, a 6% increase.but for the fourth quarter, oper profit declin 2% to $51.2 million, larg becaus of continu weak in frozen pizza and seafood and hefti introductori cost for a line of green giant frozen veget products. 
 "i'm not sure you want to freshen your breath with the same stuff you use to freshen your refrigerator."but church & dwight believ line extens like the toothpast are critic to arm & hammer growth. 
 church & dwight execut disagre with mr. trout assessment.in fact, the compani plan more personal-car product that, like the dental-car line, will carri the arm & hammer name. 
 in a number of them, say ms. bluhm, "the write isn't veri good, the color isn't good, the pictur are low budget, they have a poor plot -- a formula kind of thing."still, parent buy some 30 million copi of the classic littl golden line everi year. 
 the suit were file in los angel by sabl communic of california inc., a unit of carlin communic inc., and in new york by a group name the consent adult telephon right association.marketing: eastman kodak co. verbatim corp. introduc a line of color comput diskettes, double-sid and double-density, to help organ files. 
 mr. ross say manufactur haven't chang their rule of thumb of hold defect garment to less than 1% of the total produced, and he say they are still larg meet that goal.complain about a declin in qualiti has long been a favorit consum pastime, but custom are becom particular vocal these day about poor workmanship in higher-pr lines, say paul d. campbell, a market research in minneapoli who track consum attitud for retailers. 
 world-wid manufactur compound the problem.cloth from the same line often is produc in sever countries, make it difficult for apparel compani to offer good of consist quality. 
 dmi furnitur inc. said it reopen an assembl facil in huntingburg, ind., that had been idl sinc 1980.the 17,000-square-foot plant, which began product june 1, will assembl and finish wooden chair for the compani residenti desk line. 
 ibm introduc a line of midrang comput in a high-stak effort to regain it domin in that market. 
 but he say analyst and other "tend to overlook the fact" that more exercise-consci older peopl are begin to buy sportswear.for champion, the challeng was convinc retail that it sportswear line could compet with the like of ocean pacific, nike and adidas. 
 mr. holland expect the momentum to continue.th compani has ad a line of athlet shoes. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc a new line of midrang comput in a high-stak bid to regain the domin it onc held in that market. 
 intern data corp., a market research firm in framingham, mass., say ibm share of the $16 billion market fell to 27.6% world-wid in 1987 from 29% in 1983, while the share captur by archriv digit equip corp. vax rose to 21.6% from 13.5%.and ibm 9370 minicomput line, it initi attempt to regain dominance, has fail to becom the "vax killer" that ibm proclaim at it introduct more than 1 1/2 year ago. 
 and ibm 9370 minicomput line, it initi attempt to regain dominance, has fail to becom the "vax killer" that ibm proclaim at it introduct more than 1 1/2 year ago.becaus of the stakes, ibm introduct is the biggest the comput industri has seen in the 14 month sinc ibm brought out it ps/2 personal-comput line -- and some say it the biggest announc sinc ibm introduc it origin pc in 1981. 
 ibm underscor the signific by bring togeth 170,000 peopl yesterday to hear the news at more than 200 locat around the world.th new ibm line (code-nam silverlak in recent month but now call the applic system/400) merg the ibm system 36 and system 38 machines.do so remov the incompat between two of the three major minicomput line that ibm sell and give ibm some relief from digit relentless focus on it own freedom from compat problems. 
 the oper was in place in case ibm end up be forc to sell off part of it business.th system 38, in particular, was orphan by ibm, draw littl support from the compani even though it design was thought to be so sophist that ibm onc consid use it to build a line of mainfram that would supersed those now on the market. 
 a definit pact and close of the transact are schedul for june 30.mt. vernon, with annual sale of about $20 million, offer a line of more than 700 product that includ injection-mold plastic overcap for can coffee, margarin tubs, can nut and tenni ball cans. 
 by 1985, however, all but two american chip maker had to abandon the dram market.large, vertic integr japanes firms, abl to subsid memory-chip sale with profit from other lucrat lines, made it imposs for most american compani to surviv in this business. 
 he said the dow jone industri are like to reach the 2400 level dure the summer month as the market receiv a boost from second-quart earn reports, which he expect to be strong.intern busi machines, which jump 3 1/8 point tuesday after it introduct of the silverlak line of mid-rang computers, surg anoth 2 3/4 to 123. 
 honeywel said it second-quart earn will be below the $53 million, or $1.21 a share, of a year ago becaus of a $23 million charg for cost overrun and writedown in it militari avion group.hewlett-packard told dow jone profession investor report that it couldn't explain the drop, but analyst said it may have reflect concern that the silverlak comput will cut into sale of the compani spectrum line. 
 texaco rose 1 5/8 to 48 1/2 and top the big board list of most activ issu on composit volum of about four million shares.intern busi machines, which introduc it silverlak line of mid-rang comput as expected, jump 3 1/8 to 120 1/4 and was among a number of technolog issu that pace the market advance. 
 feder regul requir that so-cal passiv restraint -- air bag or automat seat belt -- be standard for the driver side in all car by 1990.chrysler corp. alreadi offer six car line with standard driver-sid air bag and yugo america inc. has said it has chosen to make driver-sid air bag standard on it 1990 models. 
 compaq comput corp. offici said the compani plan to unveil today a group of machin it hope will give a big boost to the most advanc generat of person comput by bring their price down.a expected, the three model in the comput compani new 386s line use a microchip that intel corp. introduc just last week. 
 expert western say russian refriger use too much power, weigh too much and make too much noise.consum clamor for them, as they do for the extens soviet line of fulli unautomat cameras. 
 marketing: bausch & lomb inc., rochester, n.y., sign a letter of intent with donna karan studio under which the eyewar product compani will make, market and distribut a line of sunglass by the new york designer. 
 pennwalt pharmaceut unit make such over-the-count brand as desenex athlet foot medic and allerest allergi medicine.it prescript drug includ microx, a rapid grow anti-hypertensive, and a line of cough remedies. 
 in a memo date may 2, joseph tate, audi general sale manager, told the compani dealer that the program "is design to present attract purchas alternatives" to coupon holder "who discov that the new 80 and 90 seri vehicl may be a better solut to their drive needs."h further elabor on the program aim in the may issu of the compani newsletter: "hope we can send some of the excess (audi) 5000 custom toward the 80 and 90 line. 
 audi blame the revers on the negat public surround the seri 5000 alleg problem with sudden acceleration.it affect not onli that car, but everi other car in the compani line. 
 kodak ask that judg zobel now withdraw from the case and that all of her order sinc 1981 be vacated.judg zobel rule in 1985 that kodak since-discontinu line of camera infring on seven polaroid patents, and kodak appeal failed. 
 lee thompson, beech-nut vice president, human resources, said the compani has spent at least $10 million sinc 1983 to improv qualiti control.h also said it has chang the babi food line and "upgrad all procedures." 
 the 386sx models, observ think, may start at about $3,000, but it couldn't be determin what compaq price will be on it machines.stewart alsop, publish of pc letter, an industri newsletter, said the advanced-softwar and technic advantag of the 386sx machin would ultim make 286 computers, such as the ibm pc at and the model 50 in ibm new ps/2 line, "pretti much obsolete." 
 "today, becaus the competit is so tough, you don't simpli say: hey i got a new car and immedi get all kind of peopl in the showroom," say lloyd e. reuss, gm execut vice presid for north american automot operations.indeed, chrysler corp. also has had problem with new products, most notabl it new eagl premier line inherit from american motor corp. slow sale will forc it to close for two week in june the bramalea, ontario, plant that make those cars. 
 other player includ revlon inc., johnson & johnson, alberto-culv co., gillett co. and dow chemic co. lamaur unit."they did a pretti good job of hold share last year," ms. templ said of the finess lines. 
 "if they hold their share (this year), i will be pleased."th finess promot follow last year success introduct of the compani helen curti salon select lines, with an advertis and promot budget of about $40 million. 
 hyponex corp. said it agre to be acquir by a unit control by o.m. scott & son co. for $14 a share, or a total of about $72.8 million.both compani are lawn-car product concerns, but hyponex would give scott, of marysville, ohio, more of a presenc in garden lines. 
 no more big workforc cutback are planned, he said.cincinnati bell hope to stimul revenu growth for telephon oper by offer more servic and introduc a new line of leas telephon equipment, mr. hibbard said in an interview. 
 most frequent mention are electron giant samsung of south korea, n.v. philip of the netherlands, and thomson s.a. of france.thomson last year acquir the consumer-electron busi of general electr co., includ it rca lines, leav zenith as the u.s.-bas maker of televisions. 
 thoma j. lipton inc., an englewood cliffs, n.j.-base unit of the anglo-dutch unilev group, agre to acquir mccormick & co. tio sancho line of mexican food. 
 neither compani could be reach to provid sale figur for tio sancho.mccormick said in may it abandon a propos to acquir the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from unit biscuit plc. 
 the chip shortag has also caus delay in comput shipment and production.a spokesman for palo alto, calif.-bas hewlett-packard co. said the compani has delay sinc march the introduct of one of it vectra line of offic person comput "sole becaus we knew we wouldn't be abl to get suffici chip to produc it." 
 while the palo alto, calif.-bas compani had expect the suppli to be looser by now, mr. young said, it hasn't, and the compani can't predict when the situat might improve.h note that the shortage, had push back introduct of a new model in it vectra person comput line to at least juli from the march unveil origin planned. 
 american brand inc. will sell e-ii hold inc. to close held rik famili corp., in a transact that enabl the compani to shed most of e-ii busi and all of e-ii $1.5 billion in high-yield debt.american brand move -- a complex agreement which will sell e-ii samsonit luggag and culligan water treatment lines, among other -- was prais by wall street analysts. 
 what more, cosmet industri execut say ad spend for men cologn rose 36% last year to $97 million and should grow further in 1988."we see the competit continu to intensifi with more new product and extens of exist fragranc line later this year," say byron donics, presid of the arami divis of este lauder inc. 
 the fanfar will be big becaus silverlak market is potenti huge.th machin will be a new model in ibm unglamor but sturdi 3x line, with 275,000 current custom make the line one of the best-sel comput famili ever outsid the pc world. 
 keyston camera product corp. said it grant to mitsubishi intern corp. the right to distribut keyston 35mm camera in japan.mitsubishi international, a unit of tokyo-bas mitsubishi corp., will sell the full line of keyston cameras, includ the le clic and regenc models. 
 high-perform tires, which provid better handl than standard tires, have been increas their market penetr in recent years.goodyear, with it eagl line, has a command lead in the high-perform market. 
 nynex agre to buy profession servic and softwar line from ag comput for about $275 million. 
 the cricket commercial, which caru cite as be misleading, is typic of the group targets.in anoth case, a seri of independent-tv ad for sylvanian families, a line of small anim figur made by coleco industri inc./tomi corp., use stop-act anim to make the figur walk, jump and pick up furniture. 
 jim perkin was name senior vice presid of the lexus divis of this unit of toyota motor corp. of japan.in the newli creat position, mr. perkin will be respons for all activ in the lexus division, which is schedul to begin sell a new line of luxuri car in the u.s. next fall. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it person system/2 line of person comput appear to be sell the best in europe. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it person system/2 line of person comput appear to be sell the best in europe.john akers, chairman of the giant maker of offic machines, said at a news confer here that europ now is "probabl the strongest market" for the ps/2 line.h note that the u.s. market has been constrain by suppli problems, but said the outlook for the ps/2 line "is shape up veri well" this year. 
 accord to analysts, sale of ps/2 got off to a rocki start but have risen late -- especi in europe.ibm want to establish the line as the new standard in person comput in europe.it introduc the line in april 1987 and has said it ship near two million unit by it first anniversary. 
 it is also necessari to evalu the major sale incent that have becom so preval in the marketplace.for example, substanti discount are avail on mani gm car line when option are purchas in a pre-specifi "package," which is design to includ the item most peopl would order separately. 
 on a 1988 chevrolet cavalier, a packag of popular option cost the custom $1,477 when purchas separ is discount by $675 when order as a complet package.in addition, the competit marketplac has frequent requir the use of cash rebat or low-interest-r financ on mani car lines. 
 the line last year generat sale of $77 million, and the divis purchas by slm account for about $35 million of that total.coleco tricycl line are among the product not includ in the purchase, slm said. 
 close held slm is control by canadian interests.william fedyski, president, said the line acquir from coleco would complement slm current line of plastic outdoor season products. 
 of course, the coutur collect present at splashi seventh avenu show in new york do origin from famous design sketchpads.but most design also have second-str and third-str line design main by assist or license and often are no more fashion and no better in qualiti than ordinari brands. 
 limit own forenza brand is now the second-best-sel women label in the u.s., after liz claiborne.but mani retail that long sold store brand primarili as the bottom end of their cloth line now are offer a much broader rang of private-label apparel. 
 dallas-bas neiman-marcus is increas it use of private-label goods, part to replac apparel by liz claiborn and evan picone, whose brand were drop last year becaus the chain felt they were overexposed.on of neiman-marcus best seller last winter was a line of private-label cashmer sweater price from $150 to $250. 
 coleco didn't say how much extend financ it had received.th toy compani also said it has receiv offer for the sale of it outdoor product line, which includ children pool and tricycles. 
 these includ slow u.s. sale and huge inventori backlog partial attribut to a product that hasn't chang in two year and an expens advertis campaign.to boost sales, the compani plan to introduc new model this fall and a new line of cars, call infinity, in septemb 1989. 
 the roster of decor who have sign licens contract with furnitur maker read like the tabl of content from architectur digest: mark hampton, mario buatta, jay spectr and juan montoya, as well as fashion design ralph lauren, whose cloth ad featur upper-crust victorian interiors.furnitur maker are hope that decor line will give a kick to what is essenti a stagnant market. 
 typically, industri execut say, most peopl wait seven to 10 year to replac a sofa, and they hang onto a bedroom set for at least 16 years.th design lines, of course, have no singl look, but rather reflect the style of the decorators, rang from 18th and 19th centuri reproduct to sleek, modern furnishings. 
 the design lines, of course, have no singl look, but rather reflect the style of the decorators, rang from 18th and 19th centuri reproduct to sleek, modern furnishings.centuri furnitur co. is typic of the tradit furnitur maker that have introduc decor lines. 
 he declin to provid more-specif figures.mr. hopkin say the lauren line give frederick edwards, base in morgantown, n.c., a firm foot in the high end of the furnitur market. 
 "it was a question marriag from the start becaus kroehler did lower-end good and lack credibl in the upper end," say jerri epperson, an analyst with wheat first secur in richmond, va.and a line of chair by the ubiquit french fashion design pierr cardin was, accord to one big depart store, "plain horrible, a mistak that didn't sell at all." 
 he acknowledg that some shortag of memori chip could persist into the third quarter if demand outstrip ibm expect but ad that, "we feel extrem confid about the fourth quarter."that advantag will be especi use to ibm becaus high-end machin requir extra memory, and demand has been weaker for ibm high-end machin than for other in the line. 
 in composit new york stock exchang trade yesterday, ibm share close at $112.625, off 50 cents.a expected, ibm also announc yesterday sever product that fill in it personal-comput line. 
 avon product inc. expect to report about flat second-quart oper earnings, and it maintain it estim of $2.30 a share from continu line for the full year. 
 fcb/leber is a unit of foote, cone & beld communic inc.licensing: colonia inc. receiv a world-wid licens agreement from knoll intern hold inc., parent of the 21 club, to produc a line of men fragranc name after the new york restaurant.th line, to be introduc in the u.s. in 1989, mark the first time the restaur has licens the use of it name. 
 his willing to tri differ approach has prove both a strength and weak for unocal.whil mr. hartley interest in underground steam format put the compani into a profit line, his unshak belief that synthet oil extract from shale would one day prove a moneymak has led the compani to write off hundr of million of dollar and to oper a plant that is produc well below it design capacity. 
 yugos, subcompact car import from yugoslavia, carri a base sticker price of $4,299 -- the lowest sticker price of ani car in the u.s.chrysl corp. announc last month that it start put driver-sid air bag as standard equip in six of it car lines, make it the first big three auto maker to do so. 
 the industri execut said the armonk, n.y., comput giant will introduc three version of what it will call the person system/2 model 70, a high-end machin that will use the intel corp. 80386 central processor.th version resembl the model 80, current the high end of the ibm line, except that they will sit on the desktop rather than on the floor in what is known as a tower configuration. 
 in addition, ibm will introduc a version of it model 50 that will have a faster hard disk.th model 50, in the middl of ibm line, had drawn consider critic in the trade press for the slow with which it retriev inform from the hard disk. 
 the execut also said ibm will cut price on some exist model to make room for the new ones, though they weren't sure just how larg the cut would be or which model they would cover.tim bajarin, a consult with creativ strategi research international, santa clara, calif., specul that they would cover at least the model 25 and 30, at the low end of the line, and the model 60, in the middl of the line. 
 at the same time, ibm seem to have postpon the announc of some product it was plan to bring out today.in particular, ibm had been wide expect to bring out laptop use the muscular 80386 chip and the less power 80286, which is use in the middl of ibm ps/2 line. 
 the progenitor of the breed was nike inc. air revolut shoe, introduc last year with televis ad set to the beatl "revolution" and print ad promis improv performance.sever rival have been introduc recently, or will be soon, includ the energi wave shoe from convers inc., a unit of interco inc.; the world trainer shoe, with an "energi return system," from reebok; and a line of shoe from eton inc. use a "dynam reaction plate." 
 oleg cassini was award $16 million by a feder court juri in a legal squabbl over a contract with perfum maker jovan inc.th 75-year-old fashion design claim that jovan breach a 1978 contract for a fragranc line market under the design name. 
 walter m. doyle, 50 year old, resign as chairman, presid and chief execut officer, and norman jennings, 40, quit as a director and senior vice presid of laser, and general manag of analect instrument division, the unit.donald sypek, 51, resign as a director and senior vice presid of the parent, but will remain with laser precis as manag of it radiometr product line. 
 great atlant & pacif tea co. is introduc a line of fanci private-label foodstuff in a far-reach attempt to capit on grow demand for gourmet products. 
 great atlant & pacif tea co. is introduc a line of fanci private-label foodstuff in a far-reach attempt to capit on grow demand for gourmet products.th line, call master choice, also repres an effort to fill what a&p, of montvale, n.j., perceiv as a void between mass-market nation brand and elitist brands. 
 within the next six months, shopper will find the master choic name on teas, pastas, sauc and salad dressings.a&p, which had $9.6 billion in sale last year, envis ultim a line of more than 100 product in about two dozen categories, mr. rourk says. 
 competitor specul that the nation fourth-largest supermarket concern will have to spend a substanti amount to develop premium product that then will end up sell in relat low volumes.moreover, the extens line could hog valuabl shelf space that would otherwis be devot to more-popular items. 
 as part of a turnaround strategi in the earli 1980s, a&p slash it depend on privat label to 18% of it dry-groceri product mix from a peak of 35%.the compani now want to use master choic to bolster it private-label line back up to 25%, a typic level for chain nowadays. 
 bloom, a unit of bloom compani inc., will creat advertis for babi fresh and wash a-by babi wet wipes; sofkins, a flushabl cleans wipe; cottonell toilet paper, and help hand and job squad paper towels.weightman, a unit of weightman group, will creat ad for scottowels; scottissues; scotties, anoth tissue; scott famili napkins, and viva design collections, a line of tabletop item includ paper napkin and placemats. 
 a few year ago, the laptop was simpli call z171.the latest models, introduc with a "road warriors" theme in april, are in a line dub supersport. 
 "mi ambit for japan is that we should sell about 25,000 volvo car in the middl of the 1990s," he said.fuji presid toshihiro tajima said, "volvo car will enabl us to meet today broad custom need by ad a new model line in the upper segment where we current do not offer ani products." 
 south african are loosen or termin their u.s. busi connect far faster than the legal environ warrants.two year ago, the idea of "countersanctions" -- predatori and discriminatori price against american buyer in line where south african produc combin could exert some monopolist power -- was dismiss out of hand by the south african busi elite. 
 chip & technolog inc. said intern busi machin corp. agre not to requir the microcomput chip maker to take out licens of ibm patent and technolog for it chip set use in clone of ibm line of person computers. 
 disney, a theme-park, movi and tv concern, bought childcraft from hachett s.a., a french publish that earlier acquir childcraft parent, grolier inc. childcraft, edison, n.j., sell educ toys, play equip and classroom furnitur by mail.advertising: pepsi-cola co., a unit of purchase, n.y.-bas pepsico inc., select loi pitt gershon/pon/ggk, new york, to creat advertis for it mug root beer line, acquir two year ago. 
 al vlietstra, director of sale for the coca-cola food canada inc. unit of coca cola co., said he welcom the competit that tropicana will bring becaus it presenc will probabl develop the refriger juic market in canada, where per capita consumpt is substanti below the u.s. level.coca-cola minut maid began market a refriger orang juic made from concentr in canada in 1985, in addit to it frozen line of orang juice. 
 the case involv 83 of an estim 14,000 design made by hallmark, the industri giant.two year ago, blue mountain art inc. of boulder, colo., su hallmark for trademark violations, contend that hallmark person touch line of card was too similar to it products. 
 public ownership is an issu now in part becaus dealership have chang so much in recent years.in the 1950s, when the number of dealership nation was twice what it is today, dealer tie their fortun to singl franchises, pitch chevys, ford or plymouth to the exclus of other car lines. 
 on friday, the compani note that it restructur effort over the past coupl of year have strengthen it oper results.amax has sharpli pare it long-term oblig and has focus it busi on gold, aluminum and coal after shed line in silver, copper, nickel, iron ore and agricultur chemicals. 
 mccormick & co. said it would abandon it propos $56 million acquisit of the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from a unit of unit biscuit plc after the feder trade commiss author it staff to seek a preliminari injunct block the transaction. 
 in fact, despit the sharp price drop in hewlett-packard shares, on volum of about 2.3 million shares, most analyst said they don't expect to adjust their project for the compani perform in futur quarters.hewlett-packard, which late in the quarter introduc nine new model of it spectrum busi comput line, said order for those machin should pick up in come quarters. 
 chrysler corp. has start put driver-sid air bag as standard equip in six of it car lines, make it the first big three auto maker to do so. 
 sale plung 41% to $73.7 million, from $124.5 million a year earlier.th loss left the west hartford, conn., toy maker -- ride high just three year ago on the success of it cabbag patch kid line -- with a negat net worth -- the differ between asset and liabil -- of $130.7 million. 
 in it earn announcement, which came after the stock market closed, coleco said it will seek a buyer for sever plastic outdoor product line that are manufactur at it new york state facilities, includ pools, snow products, children furnitur and tricycles.thes lines, which are among coleco older products, generat sale of $77 million last year, coleco said. 
 morton handel, the new chairman and chief executive, said earlier this month the compani might sell some asset to rais cash.analyst have said that the sale of line could help the compani pay off some of it debt. 
 briefs: the u.s. chess hall of fame and museum open tomorrow in new windsor, n.y. . . .a new line of inflat stereo speaker from hyman product inc., st. louis, come shape like palm trees, guitar and juke boxes. 
 in 1986, hasbro earn $99.2 million, or $1.70 a share, on revenu of $1.34 billion.mr. hassenfeld said the milton bradley game divis and it playskool line of toy will perform particular well this year. 
 the move has shock the clone makers, which had assum that ibm lack of object had assur them of clear sailing, and could squeez the more margin clone companies.th decis could also delay introduct of some clone of ibm year-old ps/2 line of person computers.in addition, the move reintroduc the prospect of messi litig in the personal-comput market at a time when ibm decis to licens the patent for it ps/2 line had been quiet that talk. 
 the success of those small store prompt big mass merchandis to also carri more licens sport goods.and the develop of "authentics" -- licens duplic of gear use by the pros -- result in an upscal line of licens product appeal to affluent babi boomers. 
 basketbal junki can slam dunk their dirti cloth through a hoop into an nba hamper.th nfl is consid a line of high-fashion even wear. 
 ibm is demand retroact payment from clone maker for patent it say were use in the ibm-compat person computers.th decis shock clone maker and could delay some clone of ibm ps/2 line. 
 slow sale are forc chrysler corp. to cut output of it premier sedan, the flagship of it new eagl car line. 
 a spokesman said the compani was "veri pleased" with the results.in addit to continu strong sale of the compani current line of dbase databas manag softwar and multim word-process products, he cite an "import contribution" from the fullwrit profession word-process package. 
 fullwrite, design for appl comput inc. macintosh machines, was introduc late in the first quarter.michel preston, an analyst with salomon brothers, call the latest period "a pretti good quarter for the company," consid it has indic it plan to begin ship this summer dbase iv, a revamp version of the dbase line. 
 murjani intern is team up with former presid warren hirsch to relaunch gloria vanderbilt jeans, a now fade brand that was one of the big hit of the design jean craze of the late 1970s.hong kong-bas murjani, a close held apparel maker that market coca-cola brand cloth and tommi hilfig menswear, said the revamp line will be made by a joint ventur run by mr. hirsch. 
 murjani licens the vanderbilt trademark to anoth women apparel firm, jone apparel group in 1985, but took the brand back last march.murjani said jone apparel dilut the trademark by introduc an extens line of women sportswear and de-emphas jeans. 
 actor dress in raisin costum march in the maci thanksgiv day parad in new york, and a raisin conga line danc at the white hous christma tree light ceremony, even upstag a certain former actor.ther are 55 license for product base on the raisin charact (for which mr. vinton doe not hold the rights), and kiddi from coast to coast are gobbl up various item of raisin-decor garb, as well as collect a line of plastic raisin figurin -- each raisin bear a name to make it more personable, lovable, buyable. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it revamp it wheelwrit line of typewriters, with the addit of five new machin model and the modif of three others. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it revamp it wheelwrit line of typewriters, with the addit of five new machin model and the modif of three others.ibm said the new machines, which are made in lexington, ky., replac and expand exist lines. 
 rebat on buick electras, le sabr and centuri all drop to $500 from $750.sale were strong across virtual all manufactur lines. 
 techknit inc. said it sign an exclus licens agreement with denton mill inc., new albany, miss., to make and market the dr. denton line of sweater for infants, toddler and children. 
 mr. wallac said the printer won't work with appl comput inc. popular macintosh computers, but will be tune to do so sometim in the future.appl offer it own line of laser printer price from about $3,000 to $7,000, but offer noth technolog compar to the deskjet. 
 crs sirrin inc., an architectur and engin concern, said it was chosen by general motor corp. as one of three compani that will design dealership facil for gm new saturn corp. car line. 
 tri a .25-calib beretta, strap around the thigh in a black-lac garter holster.th holster is part of a new line of wardrob accessori creat by design who think pack a pistol ought to be done in style. 
 "shoot is for all," say lenni handler, owner of the fort lauderdale, fla., bang bang boutique, among the largest gun-fashion retailers.th store offer a wide line of color-coordin holsters. 
 she ad her own touch -- a special holster allow the gun to be fire without remov it from the purs -- and has sinc sold hundreds.still, the new fashion line doesn't appeal to everyone. 
 c. olivetti & co. mr. cassoni last offici act as at&t comput chief was to give a speech promot at&t unix oper system at an industri confer here.becaus at&t has acknowledg that softwar and servic will command higher profit margin in the futur than manufactur hardware, a number of analyst have specul that at&t may contract out the manufactur of it next line of minicomputers. 
 mr. kavner said a number of custom have been concern about at&t end manufactur of computers, a move that analyst believ would caus at&t to take anoth writedown.jack grubman, an analyst at painewebb inc., said howev that becaus most of at&t minicomput sale are to the bell oper companies, outsourc manufactur of at&t next line of minicomput wouldn't result in a write-down. 
 mr. kavner said the compani are most interest in share product-develop effort as well as help each other in their respect markets.olivetti, which a few month ago appear to be interest in adopt the sun sparc chip for a new line of computers, hasn't yet decid to do so, said richard mcginn, vice president, product management, for at&t data system group. 
 ford motor co. follow general motor corp. and chrysler corp. in reduc factori rebates, and effect rais the price of mani american-mad car and trucks.th dearborn, mich.-bas auto maker said yesterday that while it will extend rebat offer on mani of it model until juli 12, effect today it will cut or elimin the cash offer on some of it most popular lines. 
 for example, the rebat on ford midsiz taurus and sabl model will drop 20% to $600 from $750.still, ford midsiz car rebat is $100 more generous than the $500 gm is offer on it competit midsiz oldsmobil cutlass ciera, pontiac 6000 and chevrolet celebr lines. 
 it is liquid it cwt inc. transport subsidiari and is sell it atlanta novelti inc. plush-toy unit and it cornucopia farm inc. fruit-farm business.gerb retain salomon brother inc. to seek a buyer for the furnitur group, which make a broad line of juvenil furnitur under the century, centuri origin and nod-a-way brand names. 
 but mani concern tri to crack the general market say they face formid barrier becaus of percept that black compani were unreli or their product low-quality.consid johnson product co. experi when, in the late 1970s, it launch "black tie," a line of men toiletri that was heavili advertis use most white actor and models. 
 the initi pact call for a merger of henkel and new york-bas colgat product facilities, but would have kept their market separate.instead, henkel will sell cotell soap and bleach lines, which have annual turnov of about 550 million french francs, to colgat for 925 million francs. 
 more than 300 cash machin throughout the citi and it suburb stop functioning."th machin can still talk to you, but the transact won't go anyplac without the comput line," said steven cole, presid of cash station inc., which oper some 900 cash machin in the chicago area. 
 fcb/leber katz, a divis of chicago-bas foote, cone & beld communic inc., is also alreadi a big rjr agenc with industri estim of about $110 million in rjr billings.in recent years, it had handl the comeback, through line extensions, of shred wheat. 
 the compani american heyday is long sinc past and in recent month it has been jolt by new setbacks.at least nine dealer have drop it upscal audi line sinc the year began, and compani offici fear more defect are coming. 
 fund from the sale had been earmark to help pay down the compani heavi debt load, a substanti amount of which is in short-term obligations.th optometr line were expect to garner about $300 million. 
 the net figur includ a $9 million charg from the sale of operations, partial offset by a $3.1 million tax credit.besid it optometr and medic diagnost operations, cooper has a line of surgic products. 
 fiscal 1988 revenu will be about $45 million, he predicted.mr. morino, in an interview, attribut the perform to high demand for it integr line of softwar products, which allow custom to manag all aspect of their data process systems. 
 morino associ will pursu further growth through acquisit and expans of it intern operations, the chairman said.for example, product purchas recent from other compani will be combin with morino associ in-hous develop to introduc a new line of softwar that appli tradit inventory-control concept to data process systems. 
 mitsubishi motor sale of america inc. said it rais the price of it 1988 mirag car line an averag of 1.9%, or about $170. 
 the acquisition, subject to a tender offer garner 50.1% of ingredi shares, would add ingredi flavors, sweeten and spice busi to the dyes, flavors, food addit and artificial-color line of crompton & knowles, a stamford, conn., concern. 
 price at $2.5 million to $14 million, the machin incorpor the same motorola inc. 2,500-macrocel silicon-bas array chip use in the y series.initi the ea line will offer as much as twice the memori of the y-mp. 
 under the current exchang plan, coleco would dilut it share by about 50%.analysts, who ask not to be quoted, said that coleco has mani asset that would be attract to other toy companies, includ the cabbag patch doll line, the alf doll base on the televis character, plastic ride-on toy and wade pool and such game as scrabbl and trivial pursuit. 
 while such power is of interest onli to the largest customers, the 100-mip mark is "a mileston -- both for the industri and for amdahl," accord to robert djurdjevic, presid of annex research, a phoenix, ariz.-bas comput industri consult firm.mr. djurdjev said amdahl new machin "may forc ibm to provid enhanc to it 3090 line sooner than they had intended." 
 today, the compani has a market valu of about $48 million, base on the stock close price yesterday of $2.375.while it physic assets, includ it toy lines, are worth perhap $250 million, accord to analysts, the compani debt is far higher. 
 but a sale of some asset to rais cash is possible.mr. handel said, "a wide varieti of parti have express interest in buy one or more of the compani toy lines." 
 he said coleco wasn't interest previously, but he declin to discuss it current position.ironically, the cabbag patch kid line could draw some bidders, even though it declin in recent year has contribut to coleco problems.whil cabbag patch sale last year were $125 million, down from $600 million in 1985, the toy line remain one the nation best selling. 
 among other allegations, the treasuri said heublein obtain an agreement from a larg restaur chain with outlet in california, arizona and washington state requir that heublein inglenook brand be use exclus as the hous wine.retail dealer in connecticut, illinois, texas, california and other state were provid freezer as an incent to purchas a new heublein line of distil spirits, and the compani instal keg wine equip to induc retail in new jersey to purchas it brand of keg wine, the treasuri said. 
 "but with pfizer, all you'v got is complaints."for the past year, analyst have complain that pfizer isn't work for it holders: the compani refus to divest it non-drug lines, as other in the industri have done, and pfizer general eschew stock buy-backs. 
 that would lift per-shar earn to between $4.48 and $4.68; analyst estim lean toward the lower end of that range.at the may 17 meeting, pfizer is expect to expound on a number of new products, notabl an advanc formula of it fast-sel heart drug procardia and a new line of antibiotics. 
 revenu rose 18% to $190.1 million from $161.6 million.ogilvy, which also has interest in public relat and other market lines, said it oper profit margin rose to 4.5% from 2.9% a year earlier. 
 amdahl ad 1 7/8 to 42 1/4.the compani introduc a line of mainfram comput that it said are faster than ani other mainfram on the market. 
 the ergon line of offic chair is indisput a success. 
 as the name implies, the chair, design by william stumpf & associ for herman miller inc., address comfort for a wide rang of user and tasks.thre million have been sold sinc the line was introduc 12 year ago. 
 despit much anticipatori hoopla, round two won't be a battl on the same epic scale.mani industri officials, dealers, and custom say clone of ibm year-old second line of pcs, the ps/2, will put far less pressur on the compani than did the previous generation. 
 clone underpr ibm by 25% to 40% the first time around becaus they had lower overhead than ibm and access to the same supplier part at the same prices.but ibm make 70% to 90% of it own part for the ps/2, up from some 20% for the previous line. 
 separately, grace purchas for cash the graphic-art divis of uniroy plastic co., a subsidiari of jesup group inc. grace new unit make printer gum and photopolym print plates, which are use in make plate for flexograph print of sever packag materials.grac said the acquisit expand the compani line of consum suppli for the graphic art industry. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade friday, schere fell 75 cent to close at $48.75, and cooper close at $12.375, down 62.5.separately, schere said it agre with lasall laboratori to develop and market a line of gynecolog sex-hormon product in the u.s. and canada. 
 toy compani dream up a dozen new toy-bas cartoon last year.but this year, onli one compani -- hasbro, for it cop and crook line of toy -- has a tie-in cartoon on the draw boards. 
 the craze began in 1983, when mattel put up $7 million to help fund the product of 65 half-hour episod of "he-man."bi year end, sale of master of the universe, the line that includ the he-man toy, had near tripled, make it one of 1983 hottest-sel toys. 
 "thundercats," about catlik humanoid from outer space, was a top-rat cartoon last year.nonetheless, the toy of the same name, made by ljn, suffer from dismal sales; the compani drop it from it line. 
 tonka, for instance, is forgo toy-bas cartoon in favor of that old standby, the movi tie-in.it develop a line of toy link to "willow," a stephen spielberg movi due this summer. 
 other companies, however, onc again are go with the unknown.to push it dyno-rid line of toys, tyco reject the cartoon concept as "too big a chance," accord to michael lyden, tyco vice presid of busi development. 
 strong perform in diapers, liquid deterg -- previous shun by european -- and from it richardson-vick inc. drug unit help p&g abroad.salomon brother inc. mr. zurkhulen note that the pamper diaper line, which onc had sluggish result outsid the u.s., "has realli turn around overseas." 
 polaroid said that it world-wid effect tax rate rose to 51% in the 1988 first quarter from 21% in the year-ago period.th cambridge, mass., compani also said that it increas market promot in the first quarter to reduc dealer inventori of an older-camera line in prepar for the introduct of it low-pric impuls camera. 
 it aim to keep up that growth by ad new busi to matur ones.for instance, nestl in recent year has built it ground-coffe line through cost acquisit and new products. 
 and nestl hope the de benedetti interests, which includ buitoni pasta and perugina chocolates, will generat similar idea and improv for other markets.rowntre chocol busi would strengthen nestl by ad snack product to it well-known line of chocol bars. 
 the feder trade commiss ask the feder district court here to block mccormick & co. propos $56 million acquisit of the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from a subsidiari of unit biscuit plc. 
 ibm-brasil, establish 71 year ago, is among the 20 largest privat compani in brazil.it is the market leader in larg comput but has been unabl to sell it line of person comput becaus of brazil controversi polici of reserv this market for nation manufacturers. 
 "you can't provid a consistent, consumer-pref product."tropicana is also about to unveil a new line of non-refriger orange-bas drink call twisters. 
 as of march 31, the compani had 6,950,000 share outstanding, down from 7,150,000 a year earlier becaus of a buy-back after the octob stock market plunge.american health licens diet center franchises, and sell relat line of diet food and nutrit supplement for weight loss. 
 after the split, the santa clara, calif., compani will have 2.2 million share outstanding.aft the expect sale in may of it medic laser line, cooper life scienc will be base in menlo park, calif., and plan to develop, acquir and invest in health-car product and businesses. 
 mr. perrin said he is confid the talk will reach a conclus in the next year or so.h said cartier is also talk with two other close held european luxury-good compani about expand it market share in other lines. 
 but those gain were offset great by "significant" drop in it lumber oper and mortgag bank and residenti develop activities.weyerhaeus said oper earn for forest product lines, exclus of pulp and paper, fell 35%.a year earlier, the line had a $25 million capit gain from disposit of some land and timber. 
 ibm is promis the new softwar product as much as six month earlier than expected.th oper system will final let custom tap the potenti of ibm line of mainframes, give them a reason to stop use older hardware. 
 "in this business, that all-important."ibm will continu to make it three line of copiers, which kodak expect to market under it own name by the end of the year. 
 "if kodak can pick up the ibm segment and convert it to kodak, it will be a real boom to kodak," said alex b. henderson, an analyst with prudential-bach secur inc.allen j. krowe, ibm execut vice president, said the compani determin that kodak, with it broader line of copiers, could better support the substanti market and sell costs. 
 the partnership also said that it might sell the holdings.in a secur and exchang commiss filing, haddad said it affili hold licens to distribut the hush puppi line of cloth and therefor have a busi relationship with wolverine, which make those products. 
 mr. dell also maintain that his model would outperform ibm's.del said it is negoti with ibm to licens ani patent ibm has on the ps/2 line. 
 motorola inc. unveil it latest microprocessor chip family, the 88000 line, boast the new chip provid fivetim more process power than leading-edg competitors. 
 "we are confid of be support by the banks," a daimler spokesman said, ad that he couldn't confirm recurr specul that daimler-benz has amass more than it record 56% stake in open-market acquisitions.bi take full control of aeg, daimler can step up implement of it strategi of integr aeg electron busi into it automot and technolog line and reduc aeg former emphasi in consum appliances. 
 the retail said it will upgrad store in norfolk, hampton and virginia beach for a total cost of $12 million.at these stores, furnitur and certain other line will be discontinued; that space will be devot to apparel. 
 at&t has been dissatisfied, moreover, with olivetti sale of it 3b2 minicomput and system 75 phone switchboard line in europe.olivetti also ruffl some at&t feather last novemb when it came out with a line of minicomput that some analyst say compet with the at&t machin olivetti is suppos to sell. 
 an unusu claus will permit asea brown to take over the second ventur in 1990 if either westinghous insist or if asea brown decid to do so.whil the paperwork may be complicated, the transact otherwis fit neat into a line of major corpor move mr. barnevik has initi sinc 1980, when he becam presid of asea. 
 the new softwar -- dub mvs/esa -- won't becom avail until august, but it could alreadi be give sierra sale a lift.gartn research show that price for use mainfram from the ibm line that preced sierra have fallen about 60% over the last six months, after hold firm for a year. 
 fiscal 1987 result were sharpli lower than prior year becaus of a slump market for add-on comput circuit board -- which then was ast princip line of business.th climb in this year revenue, the compani said, is due to the popular of ast line of person computers, which in the last year and a half has chang the compani into one of the largest maker of person computers. 
 profit has been aid by manufactur efficiencies.ast also plan to expand it comput line, ad less-expens model for small busi and more power one for computer-aid design and desk-top publishing. 
 in term of speed, the new comput are expect to process from 2.7 million instruct per second, or mips, to more than 10 mips, depend on how mani microprocessor are inside.in performance, they will overlap sever ibm computers, includ part of the ibm 9370 line and the 4381 line. 
 intern busi machin corp., seek to rais the return on it massiv research and develop investments, said it will start charg more money to licens it 32,000 patent around the world.in announc the change, ibm also said that it will to licens patent for it ps/2 line of person computers. 
 digit equip is expect to unveil a seri of comput to replac the middl of it vax line. 
 the judg is expect to clarifi his rule this week.lord geller has handl both corpor and product advertis for ibm, and is perhap best known for the charli chaplin campaign it creat for ibm person comput line. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday, compaq stock surg $2 a share to close at $54.75.the first-quart result indic that compaq deskpro 386 model 20 is continu to sell well despit a challeng from intern busi machin corp. newest person comput line. 
 the three -- peter gold, chairman and chief execut officer; david rousso, chief financi officer; and sydney irmas, a director -- own 67% of the price pfister share outstanding.emhart, a maker of industrial, consum and electron goods, said price pfister residenti plumb line would complement emhart construct and do-it-yourself products. 
 moreover, sear has tri unsuccess in the past to pump up it women business.in the earli 1980s, it introduc cheryl tieg and stefani power line of private-label clothing. 
 "they'r in never-nev land."th new cloth line may not be differ enough to give sear an edge. 
 holder love to tell stori about the compani market acumen.lik the stori about the time neutrogena introduc it premium-pr shampoo line to a less-than-thril reception. 
 the race to clone intern busi machin corp. ps/2 line of person comput has turn into a contest between two texas-bas companies, with tini dell comput co. appar tri to upstag giant tandi corp. 
 while mr. cassoni trim last year loss by 70% from a year earlier through bookkeep chang and some cost-cutting, revenu from outsid custom drop 4% in a banner year for the rest of the industry.industri sourc say unit sale of at&t person comput fell about 16% last year to approxim 120,000, while sale of the 3b minicomput line to outsid custom fell about 20% to 7,600. 
 at&t and sun are expect to announc soon a plan for a softwar program to make unix easier to use.th minicomput replac at&t 3b line are schedul to be launch in the second half of 1989. 
 ibm said it has ship near two million unit of it person system/2 line of person comput sinc it introduct a year ago. 
 there isn't much mahogani at the flagship mark & spencer, on london oxford street near marbl arch.th self-servic store is one of the busiest store on earth, sell cloth and food with a recent ad line of home furnish in an annex across the street. 
 but long-term health requir basic chang in mattel market strategies."we'v decid to concentr on those area where we'v histor been strong, while slowli build in other areas," such as preschool, where the firm has sign a long-term licens agreement to use disney charact on it entir line, mr. amerman says. 
 in it personal-car division, mr. reitman said, sale of children diaper continu to show consider growth despit competition.h said the divis plan to introduc an adult diaper line in the second quarter, and expect that product to break even this fiscal year. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it has ship near two million unit of it person system/2 line of person computers, as it pass the first anniversari of the product introduction. 
 but he said it isn't seek to bring in an execut "to head up the firm."lord geller has handl both corpor and product advertis for ibm, and is perhap best-known for the charli chaplin campaign it creat for ibm person comput line. 
 "that a broad range, but we believ enough peopl buy with that as a prompt preference" for the compani to reformul the way it make it products.lately, numer compani have introduc product that are low in satur fat and cholesterol, "but this is the first compani i'v heard of that has reformul it entir line -- certain the first bakeri company," said lynn dornblaser, manag editor of the trade publication, gorman new product news. 
 other segment have matur or are saturated.marriott entri into the economi line has it risks. 
 kinney shoe corp. is polish up it dull image.known as a market of budget-pr famili shoes, the 94-year-old kinney, a subsidiari of f.w. woolworth co., will soon begin sharpli increas it relianc on more expensive, all-leath shoe in it women line. 
 in the year-ago period, the compani report a net loss of $4.9 million on sale of $23.1 million.mr. schwartz said the compani face a "cash crunch" earlier in the year becaus of advertis cost associ with it frozen food line. 
 chevrolet will market renam version of it nova, sprint and spectrum under the new badge, hope to sharpen the ident of what is now a muddl array of subcompacts.th divis also plan to includ a new import jeep-lik sport-util vehicl in the line, accord to dealer and compani sources. 
 a mattel spokesman said the compani is "disappointed" by the downgrade."we'r encourag by the posit custom respons to our 1988 toy line and are realiz cost save from our restructur program," he added. 
 magazines: mcgraw-hil inc. electron magazin was acquir by verenigd nederlands uitgeversbedrijven, the netherland largest publish group, for an undisclos price.vnu said electronics, a control circul trade journal that distribut 135,000 copi bimonthly, fit well with it grow line of specialist public . . . 
 some of these award have been reduc on appeal.mr. estridg was one of ibm most visibl execut after start and overse the earli develop of the ibm pc and build the line into a $4.5 billion annual busi in onli four years. 
 mr. batogowski recent negoti a licens agreement with walt disney co. to produc merchandis use disney characters.h also negoti a similar agreement with mcdonald corp., result in the success mckid cloth line.both ventur are expect to rejuven some of sear youth lines. 
 seagram co. recent $1.2 billion bid for the tropicana orang juic line put it diversif strategi in the spotlight. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday, american standard close at $75.50, up 37.5 cents, while black & decker rose 12.5 cent to close at $18.50.black & decker, a towson, md.-base maker of power tool and home appliances, launch it unsolicit tender offer in late january, and has said that american standard air condit and plumb line are a logic extens of it business. 
 ge acknowledg when it made it offer for roper that it was the first time the compani had put out an unsolicit bid for an acquisit target.g had attempt last novemb to interest roper in a voluntari merger to obtain the georgia compani kitchen-rang line, but was rebuf by the compani management. 
 peugeot motor of america inc. is expand it rebat offer of $3,000 on it line of 1988-model peugeot 505 sedan and five-passeng station wagons. 
 the maker of electron communic equip said the purchas price repres $8 million over the book valu of the products, which are the compani line of scanner and marin radios.togeth the line account for 24% of regenc $75 million in sale last year. 
 mr. montgomeri scoff at such concerns.h say he "doesn't foresee" the need for ani acquisitions, except for limit addit to the diagnost line, in the next few years. 
 a computer-market pact between intern busi machin corp. and britain ferranti intern plc herald a major ibm campaign to boost european sale of it new line of person computers. 
 on march 4, ibm respond to the disclosur of such discuss to the wall street journal by one of it execut by label his comment as "premature" in a statement.th oem move signal a stepped-up drive by ibm to establish it year-old ps/2 line as the new standard in person comput in europe.th current standard remain the one set by ibm older pc line, which rival manufactur world-wid quick "cloned." 
 a number are test lighter weight paper and smaller catalogs.oth plan to cut out entir line of low-margin merchandis that they can no longer afford to sell by mail. 
 ncr unveil a minicomput line for link network of person comput or termin in offices. 
 term of the revis transact weren't disclosed.th institut soap product line has annual sale of about $13 million.th origin agreement was to acquir just the consum soap lines. 
 greyhound, a diversifi concern whose dial corp. unit market brand such as dial and purex and make both consum and institut soap products, said the acquisit now would cover borax product with annual sale total about $43 million.th addit product in the agreement consist of a line of hand soap and soap dispens sold under the boraxo and luron name for the medic market, and a hand cleaner line for the automot market, greyhound said. 
 the group has shelv plan to becom a european tv and radio power.hachett also recent explor and drop the idea of launch a nation daili newspap in france, to go with it line of 60 provinci week newspap and magazines. 
 at&t and sun sign a technology-shar agreement last fall call for at&t to licens mountain view, calif.-bas sun design for a new microprocessor chip and for sun to assist at&t in devis a standard version of it unix oper system.separately, unisi confirm it plan to announc tuesday a long-await mid-rang comput to bolster one of it age lines. 
 unisi said it probabl wouldn't start ship it new unix machin until the middl of next year.unisi new mid-rang comput to be unveil next week will be a version of it 1100 line long sold by sperri corp., accord to mr. blumenthal. 
 veteran of new age publish scoff at the ever-widen definit of the category.bantam book inc., a unit of bertelsmann ag of west germany, start it bantam new age book line eight year ago. 
 in turn, stora is a big custom of forestri chemic from swedish match and the two firm alreadi collabor on develop of new pulp bleach products.in recent years, swedish match has grown aggress by ad home-improv and packag acquisit to it origin line of match and other consum products. 
 ibm computer-market accord with ferranti herald a major ibm campaign to boost european sale of it new personal-comput line. 
 the wang and digit announc appear to indic that the midrang comput market in the u.s. is weaker than mani observ forecast at the begin of the year.among other midrang makers, armonk, n.y.-bas intern busi machin corp., which make comput of almost everi size, has been report disappoint sale of it midrang lines. 
 some japanese-mad microwav oven that use to cost about $235 now go for a littl over $130.sanyo electr co. replac a line of $700 small refriger with a new one start around $470. 
 world of wonder attribut the loss to plummet sale and delay in get it toy to market dure the christma season.th quarter loss includ a charg of $63.6 million for reserv to cover price reductions, estim loss for the liquid of a hong kong unit and dispos of excess materi relat to discontinu or slow-mov lines. 
 mr. whitwam hint that ge is make it bid to fend off possibl increas competit in the applianc market from whirlpool.h said whirlpool plan on expand roper current line of home applianc to compet direct with such line as ge hotpoint. 
 even devot player final grew bore as the latest game stop offer anyth new.nowadays, market are work to prevent a glut by pull older line off the shelf as more game are introduced. 
 in composit new york stock exchang trade yesterday, tandi share close at $40.25, off 50 cents.ibm introduc it ps/2 line last april, partial in a bid to regain market share lost to lower-cost clones. 
 offici said it will expand use of the new oper system to other vax comput in the next few months.although the new four-processor vax 8840 is digit most power comput ever, the line was introduc by digit vice presid of mid-rang systems, william demmer, which drew question from analysts. 
 c. olivetti & co. of italy, plus other he declin to identify.if a pact is reached, siemen and olivetti would either licens or buy from ibm the crucial part of ibm ps/2 line of comput and incorpor them into siemen and olivetti computers. 
 xerox secretari margi filter said crum & forster has help result in the past two years, and that xerox aim to boost it busi product and system sale through an emphasi on document processing.ms. filter note that xerox has absorb punish price competit from japanes manufactur and "re-establish itself with a premier copier line." 
 sinc then, it has been wide assum that mr. kelli would find some new way to get back into the acquisit game.spin off swift-eckrich, whose line includ the butterbal turkey brand, would leav mr. kelli in control of the core busi he know best.mani of the meat line were part of esmark inc., a conglomer that mr. kelli built in the 1970s. 
 the final quarter, which end jan. 2, should carri more than half of the expect 1987 earn of about $6.4 million, or 90 cent a share.full-year sale -- not includ the kaepa shoe line that the compani sold last year -- should total $313 million, down slight from $319 million. 
 wolverin world wide had post a 1986 loss of $12.6 million, larg attribut to a $9 million charg caus by the restructuring.th consolidation, which mr. gleason credit for the compani turnaround, also led to the close of five midwest and new england shoe factories, the sale of the kaepa athlet shoe line to a manag group, the sale of retail linen store and a manag restructuring. 
 "sinc we felt the pinch in the earli 1980s, we'v becom much more consumer-oriented," say jame preston, presid of avon beauti group.to it distress, avon learn a few year ago that mani women consid it makeup line "stodgy," it gift product overpr and it jewelri unfashionable. 
 so avon increas the number of gift item price under $15 and creat "more contemporary" jewelry.last month it revamp it lipstick and nail-polish line. 
 scott paper co. is look for a new advertis agenc to take over all but one of it u.s. consum product line now handl by j. walter thompson usa inc. and bbdo worldwid inc. 
 scott paper co. is look for a new advertis agenc to take over all but one of it u.s. consum product line now handl by j. walter thompson usa inc. and bbdo worldwid inc.th one except is the viva paper towel line, which will remain with bbdo. 
 time is also develop a children version of it high success sport illustr that mr. brack said is aim at encourag literaci while expand the magazin reach.h also said the magazin is develop a line of travel and vacat public on such subject as how to play golf, to be distribut by resort operators. 
 the 288-page book is base on time magazin man of the year issu featur the soviet leader.with the disband of the formal develop operations, "one of the main goal of everi publish and manag editor is to examin potenti expans or line extens of their properties," mr. brack said. 
 quaker fabric corp. said it sign a definit agreement to sell it tufted-velvet and flock-upholsteri fabric line to culp inc. for $5.6 million, subject to various adjustments. 
 but depend on the outcome, the episod could soil the squeaky-clean imag of one of the nation most success industri companies, and of it high regard chairman and chief execut officer, charl f. knight.a u.s. manag hero of sorts, mr. knight, oper in fierc competit global market for a broad line of industrial, consum and defens products, has extend to 30 year emerson unbroken streak of increas profits. 
 but it took bridgeston four year to make up it mind, and it did so onli after consider strengthen of the yen against the dollar.sourc say that beatric has had such premium food line as hunt tomato product and swift meat on the block in europ for a year, with no takers. 
 anoth group is negoti to licens a line of cloth creat by a team of 20 american and soviet designers.th line, "design for peace," will make it debut at the dalla apparel mart next month. 
 the cumbersom outfit "weren't made with hop on buse and get in and out of taxi in mind.""their attitud is, the more gizmo you can stick on a garment, the better," say laura kligh, one of the 10 american who spent three week in the georgian resort town of tbilisi in septemb craft part of the "design for peace" line. 
 lintas, which has had noxel as a client for 41 years, will continu to creat ad for the hunt valley, md., compani cover girl makeup and noxema skin cream lines.thos line bill an estim $60 million in advertis annually. 
 but ad industri executives, cosmet market and cosmet analyst said that while clarion sale have been strong, they have met neither the compani nor analyst expect sinc the product was launch with much hoopla in septemb 1986.clarion is a moder price line meant to appeal to women over 30 year old who have sensit skin. 
 "we are go to stay with the line becaus noxel has histor been a good vendor for us," he added.in it first three month on the market, sale of the clarion line total an estim $25 million. 
 mr. mottus ad that noxel may have been "spoil by" the success of it cover girl line.found in 1961, cover girl has grown to becom one of the two largest cosmet line sold in the u.s. 
 warner-lambert co. said it definit agre to acquir certain candi line from rjr nabisco inc. and ad that it expect first-quart per-shar earn to rise 20%. 
 the candi brands, which includ junior mints, charleston chew, sugar daddi and others, will becom part of warner-lambert american chicl group subsidiary.they broaden the compani confectioneri lines, give warner-lambert it first chocol candy. 
 "this is noth more than puffery, though i may be surpris tomorrow morning," he added.richard hanley, an independ analyst in new york, said that price discount on the old hoover line and other cost of the model changeov will depress first-quart results. 
 black & decker say it is pull it lite years, introduc in januari 1987, and just for me flashlights, introduc last month.th towson, md.-base applianc compani also say it will delay ship a line of smoke detector that contain the kodak ultralife. 
 polaroid request and kodak responses, disclos in feder court document unseal friday in boston, are part of a 12-year battl between the two companies.th court alreadi has rule that kodak line of instant camera and film introduc in 1976 infring on seven patent of polaroid, the founder of instant photographi and the onli other compani in the busi in the u.s. 
 with exist imprint in canada, australia and new zealand, doubleday hope to coordin public of titl throughout the english-speak world . . .who news: nan talese, vice presid and editor-in-chief of the adult trade divis of houghton mifflin co., will join doubleday next month as senior vice presid and editori director of her own line of book . . . 
 mr. mcgovern said sever product line show "solid volum performance," help by a 12% increas in market expenditures.among the top perform were ready-to-serv dri soups, beverages, fresh produce, the pepperidg farm line of bake goods, mrs. paul kitchen fish products, prego sauc and swanson frozen entrees. 
 but under the ir notice, invest compani now are requir to recogn ani built-in gain that would have been realiz if the compani had liquid befor merg into the fund.a a result, some fund don't expect to be do much in the merger line anymore. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc some long-await softwar that will make it current line of mainfram run a bit faster and will open the way for far more sophist applications. 
 in addition, ibm introduc two mainfram that fill in hole in the sierra product line -- the 280e, which has two processors, and the 500e, which contain five.ibm also extend the rang of it 4381 line of mid-rang comput by announc two high-end machin that run the new oper system software. 
 while he wouldn't estim the sale price, analyst have estim that it would exceed $1 billion.kraft also told analyst it plan to develop and test a line of refriger entre and desserts, under the chilleri brand name. 
 on feb. 9, american standard rebuf an unsolicit $65-a-share, or $2.03 billion, takeov offer from black & decker, a towson, md., maker of power tool and household appliances.new york-bas american standard has plumb and air-condit businesses, which black & decker believ would be a good fit with it own consum tool and applianc lines. 
 champion product inc. said it reach an agreement with nation footbal leagu properti inc. to produc and market "replica" footbal jersey bear the identif of the 28 nfl teams.champion products, which make and market athletic, recreat and leisur wear, said the line of jersey will be ship in august. 
 the price increas come at a time when chrysler has alleg that japanes auto maker are "dumping" vehicl in the u.s. market at price below cost.last week at the chicago auto show, gerald greenwald, chairman of chrysler chrysler motor corp. unit, defend the compani against critic who said that chrysler was also dump it own import line in the u.s. market. 
 the bridgeston deal "might have been more attractive," mr. milli said, if fireston had a propos acquisit in sight for it cash from the joint ventur rather than the prospect of a signific reduct in operations.nonetheless, mr. milli applaud the move over an outright sale of the tire asset becaus the present arrang ensur that fireston retail store will continu to be suppli with firestone-brand tire and that fireston network of about 3,500 independ dealer also could have a broader line of tires. 
 the declin "was particular significant" in the fourth quarter, the compani said.polaroid said it would be introduc camera system for under $100 in the first half of 1988, and would be appli it newer spectra instant-film technolog to it 600 camera line, which has been on the market for about seven years. 
 honeywel bull inc. introduc three model of it dps 7000 famili of medium-scal computers, along with softwar for them.th minneapolis-bas compani said the model 72, 82 and 92 extend the dps 7000 line of mainfram introduc last april. 
 the furnitur maker said the close held berkshir and allegheni oper have combin annual sale of $32 million.berkshir sell a special line of bed and dayb and allegheni make berkshir metal bed and suppli part and semi-finish product to other home furnish manufacturers. 
 black & decker first approach american standard in novemb to negoti a friend merger.black & decker believ american standard plumb and air-condit busi are a logic extens of it consum tool and applianc lines. 
 "peopl perceiv ryder as the yellow (rental) trucks," mr. burn says."whil that a valuabl line, it less than 15% of the company." 
 mr. shea note that in 1987 spiegel drop low-profit-margin merchandis such as lawn mowers, chain saws, most camera and most toys, to concentr on apparel.discontinu line account for $30 million in 1986 sales. 
 the new system softwar will be abl to handl far more complex program and work much faster with huge data bases.it will final take advantag of some advanc characterist in ibm 3090 line of mainfram that were introduc three year ago. 
 the talks, first report in crain chicago business, mark an appar attempt by the two compani to expand joint market efforts.last year, chicago-bas sear launch it mckid line of children cloth under an exclus licens agreement with oak brook, ill.-bas mcdonald's.sear offici consid the line successful, with annual sale now estim to exceed $100 million. 
 the rate agenc said the downgrad result from emhart aggress acquisit program."emhart is like to make a major acquisit in the next two year as it seek to fulfil it strateg object of reposit the busi mix toward product with more promis profit and growth prospect than it tradit capit equip lines," the rate agenc said. 
 "there are over 800 toy compani in america" and most in galoob revenu rang who were concentr on market toy "much abov the $50 rang were hurt in 1987," said steven eisenberg who follow the toy industri for bear, stearn & co. galoob, however, with practic no debt, isn't like to be anoth wow and should rebound to profit in the "50 cent to 75 cent a share range" this year assum an accept product mix, mr. eisenberg said.toy compani in general are like to be "head back to basics" with lower-pr product make up most of their mix; galoob, which will unveil it new line of toy to analyst this week, is like to follow that pattern, accord to mr. eisenberg. 
 compaq comput corp. report it fourth-quart net incom more than tripl and sale more than doubled, despit the first full brunt of competit from intern busi machin corp. newest person comput line. 
 the most power comput in that line, which challeng compaq microcomput aim at big businesses, weren't avail in larg quantiti until the fourth quarter.when the armonk, n.y.-bas comput giant debut the ps/2 line last april 2, some industri watcher predict that compaq and mani other comput maker might be bad hurt by the ibm machines, which incorpor chang to the comput design ibm had use sinc 1981 in it origin pc line. 
 ms. cool said she suspect kodak might exit the busi becaus it hadn't introduc an improv version of the disk sinc februari 1986.kodak product announc last month includ everyth but disk camera -- two new 35mm camera lines, a new 110 camera and a new dispos camera. 
 he said he doesn't expect kodak will resum product of the disk.h expect the current disk manufactur capac to be shift to produc a line of recent introduc 35mm cameras. 
 donald p. kelli and kohlberg kravi robert & co. are in talk that could lead to anoth beatric co. spinoff or to mr. kelli buy one or more of beatric huge food lines. 
 mr. kelli and kohlberg kravi took beatric privat in a leverag buy-out two year ago.but beatric has individu food lines, includ swift meat and hunt tomato products, that could easili be spun off. 
 part becaus he was distract by his e-ii role, mr. kelli has had troubl peddl the whole company.th most like spin-off candid are the swift meat line and tropicana juices, analyst said. 
 such a high-end product "is a checkoff item for scientif and engin shop commit to one vendor," said john logan, an analyst with yanke group in boston.thos compani want to know that they could buy high-end graphic workstat that work with the rest of the line, he explained. 
 it move it person comput divis into the same group as it older typewrit division, a sign that those two market are converging.it also move a slow-sel line of midrang comput into the same group as ibm core business: the larg mainfram comput that run most big compani and govern finances. 
 other analyst said they believ mr. aker assert that the separ is a sign of ibm high hope for the 3x, which has more than 250,000 customers.on of ibm biggest new product of 1988 will be the first major addit to the 3x line in years, a machin code-nam "silverlake." 
 in a year-old disput just made public, marshal field has challeng the use of the mrs. field cooki name.chicago-bas marshal field said it learn last year that mrs. fields, a chain of store known for it cookies, was interest in bring out a line of cloth under the name mrs. fields. 
 qmax technolog group inc., dayton, ohio, said it is offer a new line of skin-treat gel for use by cosmet compani in their skin-car products.th line is relat to a famili of drug similar to retin-a, a vitamin a-rel compound made by a unit of johnson & johnson, a new brunswick, n.j.-base health-car product company. 
 most importantly, consult say, as presid of ibm communic product divis last year, she was one of the few execut to exceed her 1987 budget project and has becom a proteg of power ibm execut terri lautenbach.a the newli name general manag of ibm communic system group, mrs. hancock, 44 year old, take respons for about $4 billion to $5 billion in revenu from ibm entir line of telecommun products. 
 to better tap this embryon but tradit hard-to-reach market, the nation no. 3 aluminum maker said it was reorgan it european oper under a new unit.reynold also said it was look to beef up other consumer-product line there, includ aluminum foil and packaging. 
 he said that teradyn problem began when intel corp. select semiconductor tester from rival ltx corp., westwood, mass., for it high success new microprocessors.motorola corp. is believ to be decid between ltx and teradyn tester for it microprocessor line. 
 for the year end sept. 27, sale were $1.9 billion.american standard has made restructur moves, strengthen it posit in the repair and remodel market and emphas line with higher margins. 
 microcom make comput communic equipment.meridian market the carbon copi line of software. 
 ncr corp., ballyhoo the increas flexibl of it popular tower comput system, broaden the line for high-end and low-end user with four new models. 
 mr. gray said the same softwar system -- name the unix network, develop by american telephon & telegraph co. -- can be use on each tower model.in turn, that make individu comput programs, be they as simpl as a spreadsheet or as complex as control factori equipment, compat with everi part of the tower line. 
 but, with the introduct of the four ncr models, none seem quit as extensive."thi line is a bit fuller," said wendi abramowitz, an analyst with argus research corp., in new york. 
 the 32/200 is schedul to be avail in april, with a suggest list price of $5,445.the 32/850, now the most power on the tower supermicrocomput line, can serv as mani as 512 users. 
 but mr. shapiro say the compani may have a tougher sale job with simpless than it had with nutrasweet, sinc consum had seen sugar-substitut before.a a result, the compani is consid bring out it own line of food product contain simplesse. 
 revenu rose 4% to $281.7 million from $270.8 million.irv gould, chairman and chief execut officer, said demand for all product "exceed expectations" while the amiga line "is be establish solid and current repres 40% of total revenues." 
 but design are also offer women the shorter look with a bit more modesty.donna karan show culott in her spring line. 
 he expect more pant in the fall collection.but design say they haven't abandon the longer skirt and plan to includ it in their fall line as one option. 
 but sterl group inc., a houston investment-bank concern that special in leverag buy-outs, confirm it recent form sgi to purchas artcarved.artcarved, which make a line of diamond, wed and class rings, had annual sale exceed $100 million last year. 
 last september, brown-forman said it was consid the sale of the divis to focus it oper on alcohol beverages, china and luggage.in juli 1986, brown-forman liquid it unprofit keepsak jewelri line. 
 the oslo-bas comput maker earlier this month slash it estim of 1987 pretax earn to half the 475 million kroner ($74.8 million) post for 1986.norsk data intend to widen the intern market share of it success line of integr newspap and publish systems. 
 eastman kodak co., expand both it high-end and low-end camera line, introduc four new cameras, includ a 35mm version that will like sell for less than $50. 
 unit share close at $34.50, down 87.5 cents, in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday.quart sale grew in flight systems, which includ sikorski helicopters, and defens electron and aircraft product lines; build systems, primarili oti elev and carrier air-condit systems; and industri products, such as automot products, essex wire and cable, and control systems. 
 in addition, mainfram sale rose a bit even though they have been ship in volum for three year and sale could normal be expect to slip at this stage of the product cycle.ibm said sale of the new line of person comput were strong. 
 said h.p. smith, an analyst with smith barney, harri upham & co., "the sale price is particular disconcert given the fact that the compani had been indic there were a larg number of compani express interest in this business."gould has been tri for 17 month to sell it defens businesses, and still has it larg navcom system unit and sever smaller line to sell. 
 sale rose to $243.4 million from $214.6 million.th groceri product concern, which also make paints, stain and product for the food-servic industry, said shipment were up in all it lines. 
 wine group is a san francisco-bas limit partnership.glenmore, a distil beverag producer, said it may redeploy the cash in it exist lines. 
 last july, scott chairman philip lipincott set a sale target of $1 billion for europ by 1990, constitut about a fourth of total compani sales.among scott european brand are andrex, the lead bathroom tissu in britain, and le trefle, a popular french line of sanitari paper goods.scott also market cotonell bathroom tissu in itali and the sancel line in spain. 
 soni corp. last year introduc it my first soni line of audio product for children four and up.fisher-pric toys, a divis of quaker oat co., roll out a $225 kid camcord this christmas, a pricey departur from it mainstay line of preschool toys. 
 one analyst said he thought increas competit in the market for 286-base comput was also behind the price cut."pric pressur is realli heat up in this area," said jim poyner, an analyst with rauscher pierc refsn inc. mr. poyner predict a few week ago in an invest report that compaq would have to cut price becaus of aggress price cut by ibm. offici price of ibm lastest line of comput haven't chang sinc the machin were introduc april 2, but mr. poyner believ ibm import direct sale force, which sell comput to larg corporations, is offer bigger discounts. 
 onc known as a pretzel maker, j&j has broaden it product base by acquir sever compani in recent years.among it newer line are cookies, frozen juic and churros, a hispan specialti pastry. 
 in 1987, the compani acquir a control interest in icee-usa, a market of semi-frozen carbon beverages, and vernon, calif.-bas southern food products, a maker of bake goods.j&j also acquir the frostar line of frozen treat and trotter soft pretzels. 
 deer & co. said it plan to lay off indefinit about 150 worker at it construction-equip assembl plant here.th maker of farm, industrial, and lawn and garden equip said the layoff are due to complet of the introduct of a new line of crawler-bulldoz and what a spokesman call "minor reduct in product schedules." 
 one of these, the premier, is especi important.it is the first model in the new eagl brand of car that chrysler plan to sell through the 1,400 dealer it ad to it distribut network when it pick up american motors. (the eagl line isn't to be confus with the eagl model former sold by amc.) 
 that compani popular and profit jeep model were a major reason chrysler made the acquisition.but chrysler figur it can get the most bang for it buck by creat a new line of car that appeal to jeep owner -- typic young and upscal type who now buy, say, a saab to go along with their jeep. 
 but consum aren't easili swayed."th tough part is how long will it take" to get a good car line for eagle, say mr. iacocca. 
 analyst said the softwar should help ashton-t remov some of the consider concern over whether it can updat the vener dbase product to keep up with the new generat of comput hardwar and operating-system software.for microsoft, analyst said the agreement will ensur that it can offer the general public the sort of product that intern busi machin corp. has promis it custom with it newest line of person computers. 
 but emhart isn't abandon it past as a consum and industri product compani either, as the stanadyn bid shows.emhart is primarili interest in stanadyn moen brand of plumb products, which emhart say would make a natur fit with it consum hardwar and housewar lines. 
 gm has schedul overtim shift tomorrow at it baltimor truck plant and for postal vehicl product at it moraine, ohio, truck plant.gm pontiac, mich., west plant, which build blazer and jimmi sport util trucks, will be close until jan. 18 for instal of a new engin line. 
 dow has indicated, however, that it appetit isn't yet filled.last week, it offer to acquir a.h. robin over-the-count drug line from rorer group for $950 million if rorer should be the success bidder for robins. 
 however, the decis to entertain buyer for talbot and eddi bauer repres a turnabout for general mills.at the septemb annual meeting, chairman h. brewster atwat jr. outlin ambiti growth plans, includ 15 to 20 new outlet and introduct of a children line for eddi bauer, and a $190 million expans for talbot retail and direct-market operations. 
 as previous reported, the palo alto-bas company, onc known as coopervis inc., last year unsuccess sought to be acquired.th compani has sold it ophthalm pharmaceut line and current oper includ medic diagnost and ophthalmalog surgic equip and lenses. 
 market the vidal sassoon product to retail and catalog showroom account for about 80% of it business.helen of troy also sell it own line of profession hair-car applianc to salons, about 10% of it sales. 
 the new agenc is like to be a much smaller one than thompson, an industri sourc said.thompson recent account loss includ pillsburi co. $200 million burger king corp. account, $100 million of ford motor co. busi in europ and latin america, the $30 million account for pepsico inc. slice soft drink line, and a dozen smaller accounts. 
 the ad agenc compet for the saturn account haven't been given mani detail about the car saturn will make.th saturn line is expect to featur car that are smaller and lighter than the current gm cars. 
 maytag corp. said it plan to spend an addit $30 million to upgrad and expand it galesburg, ill., plant, which make the admir line of appliances. 
 "the complex and uncertainti of a possibl takeover" of rorer "have to hurt it chances," said h. arvid johnson, robin senior vice presid and general counsel.moreover, robin has react negat to rorer recent propos to financ a more generous bid by sell off some of robin prize consum drug lines, such as robitussin cough syrup, chap stick lip balm and dimetapp cold remedies. 
 design a product for able-bodi peopl so it also use to the handicap sometim requir onli imagination, not much money, as can be seen in a coupl of recent innovations.standard softwar for appl comput inc. macintosh line includ a file call "easi access" for peopl who can't type with both hand or have troubl manipul the mouse. 
 paris-bas kaysersberg, with annual sale of about $725 million, oper six plant and employ 3,600 workers.it market a broad line of towel and tissue, personal-car and health-car product in france, west germany, itali and the benelux countries. 
 equal unfound is mr. kelli implic that the american brand board of director has not been aggress seek meaning to enhanc sharehold value."american brand best-known line are it cigarett brands, includ pall mall, tareyton and lucki strike. 
 the compani also own such major liquor brand as jim beam, old granddad and old crow.oth line includ swinglin offic products, case cutlery, titleist and foot-joy golf item and master locks. 
 in 1986, mr. kelli was name as beatric chairman when it was acquir by kohlberg kravi robert & co., a new york invest concern, in a $6.2 billion leverag buy-out.in july, he took beatric non-food busi and some smaller specialti food line public as e-ii holdings. 
 it previous offer was about 13.3 million shares.ror also told robin that it revis acquisit propos "contemplates" the sale of robin over-the-count drug lines, such as robitussin, chap stick and dimetapp, to merrel dow pharmaceut inc. for $950 million.ror said it hadn't enter a formal agreement with merrel dow, a unit of dow chemic co. merrel dow offer in may to buy those line direct from robins. 
 the vms 5.0 -- price at up to $3,975 -- won't be found at record store near you, however.th digit program is the new oper system that control the basic function of the popular vax line of computers. 
 offici of the record industri associ of america, the group lead the opposit to digit tape recorders, couldn't be reach for comment.separately, as expected, tandi unveil a person computer, the tandi 5000, compat with ibm person system/2 line. 
 hachette, which claim it is now the world fourth-biggest media company, behind bertelsmann, capit cities/abc inc., and time inc., is be driven abroad in part by challeng at home.group de la cite, a recent agglomer of publish companies, is in most of hachett line and own half of the world biggest book club, which sell at great profit 26 million book a year to one frenchman in everi five. 
 contain kodacolor "gold," the box promin display that word in gold-color foil against a black background and a gold band run across the center of the box.th new print film and name will be market world-wid and will replac kodak high success line of vr-g films. 
 the compani doesn't disclos how much of it revenu -- $13.3 billion in 1987 -- is deriv from film sales, but film is kodak cash cow.th vr-g line of 35mm color-print amateur film, introduc three year ago, is aim at the fastest-grow market for film. 
 "microsoft has done a much better job in deliv new product to market than lotus," mr. sherlund said."they seem to get more bang from their r&d line than lotus." 
 spy, the bratti month magazin that tweak new york rich and powerful, will launch a new line of book with dolphin/doubleday this fall. 
 he predict continu strong sale of such recent product as the cordless screwdriver, air station air pump, handi chopper food processor and spacemak popcorn popper.a part of the new strategy, the compani has been develop innov in it line of power-tool accessories, includ piranha saw blade and bullet pilot point drill bits. 
 parker hannifin corp. said it complet the previous announc acquisit of pullman co. brune hydraul and waterman hydraul divis for $24.5 million.th acquisit broaden parker hydraul part product line. 
 grow group, which make household product and specialti chemic coat and paints, also said it expect to report a loss from continu oper for the third quarter end march 31 of about $1 million.in the year-earli period, earn from continu line were $773,000. 
 in the chemic group, increas sale of mine reagents, water-treat chemic and engin materi contribut to the gains.meanwhile, the compani consumer-product business, the shulton group, had higher sale of such household line as pine-sol liquid cleaner and combat pest-control products. 
 dell comput corp., as expected, becam the first compani to announc copi of intern busi machin corp. year-old person system/2 comput line, but dell model won't be avail until the fourth quarter. 
 a warhol calendar is in the works, but mr. schlaifer also envis warhol posters, note cards, bathmats, shop bags, ties, handbag and scarfs.ther are talk with bloomingdal about a housewar line. 
 it didn't break out product-lin results, but a spokesman said it world-wid mainfram shipment rose from the year-earli quarter and that the compani saw "continu strength" from mainframes.th biggest shot in the arm for ibm may have been the februari announc of an unglamor but pivot import product: a new piec of softwar to control the basic work of ibm three-year-old sierra line of mainframes. 
 the biggest shot in the arm for ibm may have been the februari announc of an unglamor but pivot import product: a new piec of softwar to control the basic work of ibm three-year-old sierra line of mainframes.som analyst believ the thousand of corpor and govern that run their financ on million-dollar ibm mainfram hadn't previous had a compel reason to trade up to the sierra line. 
 the current quarter should go a long way to clarifi ibm long-term outlook by resolv some crucial question outsid the mainfram marketplace.ibm year-old ps/2 person comput line will see it first clone enter the market, begin with some announc next week. 
 specul in the industri is that ibm will pull the wrap off silverlak on june 21.it has huge potenti for ibm becaus it will be pitch as a replac for a line with more than 275,000 current customers, the 3x. 
 as for at&t view of the bargain, it manag say that while olivetti machin fit well with at&t u.s. product line, it wouldn't be difficult for at&t to find anoth source.at&t has been dissatisfied, moreover, with olivetti sale of it 3b2 minicomput and system 75 phone switchboard line in europe. 
 polaroid corp., as expected, unveil a new low-pric line of instant camera call impulse. 
 he disclos how vulner anyon who cover the white hous is to the anonym aid who dispens quot everi day.i think anonym quot are often useful, even important, but everyon know they can also be a tool to push a sourc latest line. 
 "the market still seem to be strong, the traffic is good.w anticip sell out (to dealers) earlier this year than in past year on virtual all car and truck lines." 
 but, he adds, "not all the product and merchandis have been chang yet to be consist with that focus."gm dug a hole for itself, as compani offici see it, by blur the distinct between buick and oldsmobile, and between those car and other gm lines. 
 for a half-century, the compani divis form a progression: a custom start with a chevrolet, switch to a pontiac if he was flashy, progress to a more conserv oldsmobil and then a more opul buick, and finally, if he made it big, land a cadillac.then came the look-alik era of the earli 1980s, when gm downsiz it model line and cut cost by share mani basic part across divisions. 
 execut of at&t data system group have said last year fourth-quart sale of person comput were hurt by slow deliveri from olivetti.at&t also has been unhappi with olivetti launch a minicomput line in europ that compet with at&t 3b line, instead of tri harder to sell at&t products. 
 at&t olivetti machin run on intern busi machin corp. oper systems, and the presid of at&t data system group, vittorio cassoni, who came from olivetti in 1986, said at&t doesn't have ani plan to emphas unix on the desktop.at&t has said it plan to use unix run on sun power sparc microprocessor for it new line of minicomput due out next year. 
 digit equip corp. is expect to introduc short a seri of new comput to replac the middl of it popular vax line. 
 in performance, they will overlap sever ibm computers, includ part of the ibm 9370 line and the 4381 line.analyst specul that digit is anxious to announc calypso befor ibm introduc the silverlak line. 
 we are neither seek or solicit offers."mr. smilow said the compani will go ahead with previous disclos plan to sell it jhirmack inc. hair-car line. 
 mr. teet say that "we'v been restructur for four year and basic we'v just finish up" with a way to shed the loss-produc verex mortgag insur business.last fall, the former food-servic execut bought the dobb hous airport restaur and other food-servic line from carson piri scott for $326 million, boost debt to about 50% of total capital. 
 just now, though, the two industri are more apart than together.som analyst contend, moreover, that at&t can do better computer it phone network than creat it own line of computers. 
 a spokesman said the new label don't address qualiti or pricing, but instead attempt to organ sear current offer accord to lifestyl of custom it is targeting.th apostroph line, for example, extend and bring togeth under a singl contemporari label the cheryl tieg casual cloth and stefani power career cloth alreadi sold in sear stores. 
 ibm never challeng the right of mani clone-mak to replic it earlier machines.ibm has indic that it expect legal clone of it ps/2 line to appear, but didn't expect them to arriv quit so fast, and has said it certain wouldn't do anyth to make life easier for the clone makers. 
 near everi cosmet is sold under the pretend imprimatur of one or both of these oracles.th sale forc for este lauder cliniqu line, for instance, dress in white lab coat to hustl it hospital-green bottl and tubes. 
 sun microsystem will unveil today a line of general-purpos comput workstat built around intel popular 80386 microprocessor. 
 "we own the roper brand name.w attain that object and we have full intent to proceed with our plan to introduc a full line of roper home appliances," mr. whitwam said. 
 and he flunk his first screen test; the studio reject his cockney accent, his "bowlegs" and his "thick neck."yet he still becam the flagship of hollywood dreamboat line. 
 some, such as monsanto co., have shed near all their commod chemicals.others, such as dow chemic co., are retain certain basic product and build complementari specialti lines. 
 general time produc watch and clock sold under the westclox, big ben and babi ben and seth thoma names.talley has been restructur it oper to emphas businesses, includ it automot air bag line, that have higher growth rates. 
 campbel soup co. said it will introduc sever frozen-breakfast products, signific expand it effort in one of the food industri fastest grow segments.in may, the camden, n.j.-base soup maker will roll out a new line of 99-cent frozen budget breakfasts, as well as a microwav belgian waffl that requir a tricki technolog feat to make it palatable. 
 follow the announc yesterday morning, price pfister share soar $7 to close at $17.50 in nation over-the-count trading.emhart, a maker of industrial, consum and electron goods, said price pfister residential-plumb line would complement emhart construct and do-it-yourself products. 
 in addition, the product reli on special packaging, frequent use in other microwav product like pizza, to help keep it crispi on the outside.campbell, which alreadi has a $1.29 to $1.69 line of frozen breakfast call swanson great starts, isn't alon in pursu breakfast-eaters. 
 so edwin lopez, who is tri to claim some space on those shelv for new product from campbel soup co., has his work cut out.mr. lopez is work hispan neighborhood tri to break down the fierc loyalti to goya product and make inroad for campbel new casera line of more than 50 food product aim at hispan of caribbean origin. 
 benihana nation corp., miami, plan to close it unprofit big splash-seafood emporium restaur line as part of it drive to "get back to basics" and focus on japanes cooking, joel schwartz, president, said in an interview. 
 it fell 3 1/8 to 82 1/2 after it said will ceas product of chlorofluorocarbons, a famili of chemic that have been found to damag the atmospher ozon layer.du pont is the nation largest produc of the chemicals, though the line is a relat small part of it business. 
 the emphasi on headgear is expect to last at least through the fall.christian lacroix fall line, for example, includ velvet and flower worn close to the head. 
 intel corp., which fled the comput memory-chip busi in 1985, took a tentat step toward re-ent it by agre to market memori chip made by micron technolog inc., one of onli two u.s. concern that still make them.santa clara, calif.-bas intel -- which make a broad line of semiconductor product -- along with most other big u.s. chip makers, quit make so-cal dram, or dynam random access memory, chip after japanes chip maker flood the u.s. with cheap memori chip earlier in the decade. 
 in fact, some lawyer say, the appl suit itself could well turn on a 1986 decis involv stuf dinosaurs.in that case, decid in 1986 by robert p. aguilar, the same san jose, calif., feder judg assign to hear the appl suit, a pair of toy design su a compani for infring their copyright on a line of dinosaur dolls. 
 it isn't clear whether the vehicl will retain the chevrolet name or just carri the chevi "bow tie" emblem.in ani event, chevrolet hope to launch geo this fall, almost two year befor the debut of gm saturn car line, anoth new namepl that, unlik geo, will also be a separ franchise. 
 h.j. heinz co. said it star-kist food inc. unit enter a definit agreement to buy the pet-food oper of california home brand hold inc. term weren't disclosed.california home brand line consist primarili of can dog and cat foods, includ the skippi premium, vets, sturdy, petuna and glamour puss labels. 
 that kind of world is an increas headach for ibm.it first line of pcs, born in 1981, was overrun by clone that had all the featur of a big blue comput for less money. 
 it bought the chip at the heart of the machin from intel corp. and the program that guid the machin basic function from then-fledgl microsoft corp.that made it easier for other compani to flank the ibm line with softwar and accessories. 
 regenc electron inc. said it agre to sell it consum product line to uniden corp. of america, also of indianapolis, for $12 million. 
 regenc electron inc. said it agre to sell it consum product line to uniden corp. of america, also of indianapolis, for $12 million.th maker of electron communic equip said the purchas price repres $8 million over the book valu of the products, which are the compani line of scanner and marin radios. 
 henley said it plan a public offer of $1 billion of subordin debentur to refin $980 million of bank debt now outstand under a $2.3 billion line of credit.th compani said it also expect to replac it exist line with a new facil total more than $2.5 billion. 
 but alf didn't make up for the declin cabbag patch sales, and industri analyst and buyer expect alf to slow consider this year.on problem, say a former execut who ask not to be identified, is that coleco has devot too much research-and-develop effort to expand it cabbag patch line, to littl avail. 
 but his most import move was to take ward away from it tradit approach of being, like sears, a private-label mass merchandiser.h transform ward into a low-pric specialti chain focus around such line as consum electron and home furnishings. 
 "we believ that if the ftc conduct the thorough review warrant here, it will agre with our position," mr. whitwam said.whirlpool has said it plan to expand roper line of kitchen rang into a broader select of household appliances.th compani has also charg that ge enter the bid for roper becaus the fairfield, conn.-bas compani fear competit from a whirlpool-rop combination, especi against it hotpoint applianc line. 
 often, debt is balloon by well-intent effort to reshap a compani business.allegheni intern inc., onc primarili a steel producer, set out a decad ago to strengthen it consumer-product lines, main through acquisitions. 
 a computer-market pact between intern busi machin corp. and britain ferranti intern plc herald a major ibm campaign to boost european sale of it new line of person computers.und the agreement announc last week, the medium-s british electron compani will relabel and sell ibm new ps/2 line of person comput along with it comput products. 
 mrs. tompkin feel that esprit move too fast at a time when it need to paus and reorient it image."expans put a lot of pressur on the {product} line," she says. 
 despit such extravagance, he adds, at least some esprit store are profitable.similar excess got esprit into troubl with some depart store sell it line. 
 offici of the compani said it will use the new chip as the heart of new model of it 4300 seri of workstations, which are capabl of produc three-dimensional, full-color graphic imag use in computer-aid engin and design.an earlier generat of microprocessor made by motorola power tektronix exist line of technic workstations. 
 ncr corp. introduc a new line of minicomput for link network of person comput or termin in offices. 
 the addit product in the agreement consist of a line of hand soap and soap dispens sold under the boraxo and luron name for the medic market, and a hand cleaner line for the automot market, greyhound said.a spokeswoman for greyhound said the negoti to buy the consum and industri line of the u.s. borax 20 mule team divis were handl separately, but that the purchas are expect to close at the same time. 
 not surprisingly, the market strong sale are attract big food processors.carn co., for example, is race to build a nation presenc with it contadina fresh pasta & chees line. 
 general food corp. is test it culinova gourmet entre and ronzoni refriger pasta and sauces.and kraft inc. recent began test it chilleri line of refriger salad as well as pizza kit and pasta-and-sauc dinners. 
 talley also said it may pay addit stock and cash if mcmullen achiev certain earn over the next five years.talley said the purchas is part of it previous announc restructur plan to focus on govern contracting, electron part and technic services, and sell it slow-grow consum lines. 
 welbilt corp. said it agre to distribut home applianc in the u.s. for bimak s.p.a., a florence, italy-bas maker of consum appliances.welbilt said it will distribut a line of small applianc includ cappuccino machines, irons, ice-cream machin and food processor under the ariet label. 
 a few store are bet heavili on higher hemlines.henri bendel, new york, say 90% of it line will be short for the spring. 
 compens soar to otherworld level as young wizard jump from firm to firm in pursuit of an ever-fast fortune.secur firm expand headlong, throw peopl and money at line that show even a glint of promise. 
 the credit line, to be use for work capital, extend through march 31, 1990, and replac a $60 million bank credit line that expir jan. 31.as previous reported, intern technolog said last month that it need to negoti addit credit, becaus cash from oper and exist bank credit wouldn't be enough to fund oper until the compani receiv proceed from the sale of certain discontinu lines. 
 digit equip lost 4 to close at 120 3/8.the compani introduc a new line of power comput call vax 8800. 
 ms. preston said she expect the tandi model will use a chip set from intel corp., santa clara, calif., that mimic the basic oper of the ibm computer.however, a former tandi employee, who ask not to be identified, said the key chip set would be made by chip & technolog inc., a milpitas, calif., compani that make chip use by a varieti of clone maker to copi ibm first generat person comput line. 
 ibm introduc it ps/2 line last april, partial in a bid to regain market share lost to lower-cost clones.ibm freeli allow other maker to copi the model in it pc line, start in 1981, to help establish it design in the face of competit from appl comput inc.but inexpens copi ate into ibm sales, and with the ps/2 line ibm indic it would guard it invent more closely. 
 the canadian concern, as expected, also sought to block payment of so-cal breakup fee to maci from federated.maci sec file confirm it previous report plan to sell feder discount-stor line and it ralph supermarket unit, as well as unspecifi depart stores. 
 canada elizabeth manley, who unexpect won a silver medal in figur skating, is be consid by three u.s. compani for ad that would run in canada and part of the u.s., say her agent, michael a. rosenberg of bever hills.anoth of his clients, u.s. figure-skat jill trenary, didn't even win a medal but is still be consid by a hair-car line, he says. 
 such arrang would dilut the compani control over sale of it technology, and could step on the toe of ibm sale repres and dealer by creat competit for them.th fact that the armonk, n.y., comput giant is will to consid such arrang larg reflect it attempt to establish it ps/2 line as a standard. 
 some competitors, such as compaq comput corp., have profit sinc the ps/2 introduct last april by sell to custom who didn't want to make the sometim awkward transit to the new ibm hardware.ibm itself continu to sell in europ part of it old line of computers, and mr. low said sale of those product have remain stronger than he expected. 
 olivetti also is respons for all personal-comput and workstat develop for american telephon & telegraph co., a relationship that could complic olivetti talk with ibm.in addition, clone of ibm ps/2 line are expect to be market in the u.s. soon. 
 intern busi machin corp. label as prematur a compani execut statement that ibm is discuss cooper with european rival in it new ps/2 line of person computers. 
 reagan thus becom the nation sixth-largest outdoor advertis company, with about 10,000 signs. . . .trim fat, wilson food corp. say it will follow it recent introduct of a 96% fat-fre ham product with a new deli lite line of low-cholesterol and low-fat deli meats. 
 the stronger sales, in fact, encourag gm to reduc the rebat on the model this week, to $500 from $600.but gm yesterday slap it first-ev incent on the new buick regal, the first in a new line of midsiz car the compani is count on to boost market share, becaus of less-than-robust sales. 
 first boston has been tri to sell beatric remain food businesses, includ swift-eckrich, sinc last september.but sourc said mr. kelli has ask wasserstein, perella & co. -- the new invest bank firm form by former first boston merger chief bruce wasserstein and joseph perella -- to peddl beatric tropicana juic lines. 
 but sourc said mr. kelli has ask wasserstein, perella & co. -- the new invest bank firm form by former first boston merger chief bruce wasserstein and joseph perella -- to peddl beatric tropicana juic lines.sourc said it is believ salomon inc. salomon brother inc. unit has been ask to sell two other beatric lines, hunt tomato product and wesson cook oil. 
 the chip is the piec of silicon that actual perform computations.th lisp chip is now avail onli in texa instrument explor ii line, which was introduc last summer. 
 but the compani further boost it shoe-lin develop staff by 50%, and plan to upgrad it remain 15 u.s. factories.mr. gleason said a number of wolverin lines, includ hush puppi casual shoes, brook athlet shoe and wolverin brand work shoes, began use new design or enter new area in the past year. 
 while microsoft would be prevent from sell it older program in brazil, the redmond, wash., compani would be assur of a possibl larger market for subsequ programs, they said.meanwhile, brasilia also appear to be retreat from a report plan to allow a brazilian compani to manufactur an imit of a wide use line of person comput design by appl comput inc. u.s. trade offici earlier said that brazil disregard for the patent right of u.s. comput maker was anoth reason for the threaten sanctions. 
 sparkl water brand asant and saratoga are be sold by anheus busch cos., along with the zeltzer seltzer natur soda line. 
 convex comput corp. today is expect to introduc a new line of mini-supercomput that it hope will broaden the appeal of the power machin beyond the univers and research institut that have been their mainstay. 
 at&t last develop agreement with a comput concern, sun microsystem inc., eventu led to at&t take a stake in that company.at&t forg the sun agreement to improv it own comput line. 
 canadian jeep/eagl dealer said sale have also suffer in canada becaus custom appear somewhat confus over the market nich that premier is attempt to fill.though the premier is aim direct at ford motor co. taurus and sabl line, some canadian dealer said buyer expect a less expens car in a price rang similar to the low-pric subcompact model amc former built. 
 then came talk that a french concern want to acquir u.s. consum product compani such as chicago pacif or the sunbeam unit of allegheni international, which file for chapter 11 protect from creditor last weekend.ther is also the new "elite" line of hoover vacuums, due to be unveil march 16 at a plaza hotel gala in new york. 
 control data corp. enhanc it general-purpos mainfram comput line with four top-end machin featur larger memori and more comput capacity. 
 greyhound corp. said it agre to purchas the borateem, boraxo and 20 mule team household product line and asset from the u.s. borax & chemic corp. unit of london-bas rtz corp. 
 kodak also disclos flaw that lower the suppos 10-year life of it ultralif nine-volt batteries.black & decker, one of kodak largest batteri customers, is pull thousand of flashlight from store and stop shipment of a new line of smoke detector that carri the battery. 
 intertorg inc., a sacramento, calif., importer, plan to set up a separ compani to introduc soviet fashion to the u.s., particular the creation of mr. zaitsev -- design to raisa gorbachev and the bolshoi ballet.anoth group is negoti to licens a line of cloth creat by a team of 20 american and soviet designers. 
 the soviet coutur has gotten quit haut of late, their fashion spokesmen insist.design there haven't ani intent of flood the u.s. with siberia-made, scratchi woolen sock or a line of apres-bowl wear. 
 but the compani is find synergi between beer and the snack-food busi a tougher nut to crack.anheus expect it eagl brand snack line to lose at least $10 million this year, and mr. ritter wouldn't estim for analyst when the line might becom profitable. 
 that bad news for black & decker corp., one of it larg customers.black & decker said it is pull thousand of flashlight from store shelv and stop shipment on a new line of smoke detector that carri kodak so-cal ultralif nine-volt battery. 
 however, the batteri didn't reach the mass market until the next year becaus of problem gear up production.kodak also market a line of japanese-mad alkalin batteries. 
 noxel corp. is about to give it clarion cosmet line a new advertis look. 
 the account is expect to bill about $20 million this year, make it one of the largest cosmet account in the u.s.lintas, which has had noxel as a client for 41 years, will continu to creat ad for the hunt valley, md., compani cover girl makeup and noxema skin cream lines. 
 the spokesman said that noxel has told the compani that the clarion product will be repackag and further promoted."w are go to stay with the line becaus noxel has histor been a good vendor for us," he added. 
 the noxel spokeswoman said that the compani doesn't break out sale of it individu product lines, but that clarion sale are "right on target" with the compani expectations.market most in drug stores, the clarion line use comput to help custom choos their makeup shades. 
 mr. mottus said noxel will probabl have to focus on one or the other in it advertising.mr. mottus ad that noxel may have been "spoil by" the success of it cover girl line. 
 polaroid corp. disclos friday it is seek $5.7 billion in damag from kodak as a result of it success patent infring suit.and black & decker corp. last week said it was pull two line of flashlight off the shelv becaus of flaw in the kodak ultralif nine-volt lithium batteri that power them. 
 warner-lambert co. said it definit agre to acquir certain candi line from rjr nabisco inc. and ad that it expect first-quart per-shar earn to rise 20%.term of the candi line transact weren't disclosed. 
 but those shortag should eas as the year progresses.in addition, ibm, which has been heavili discount part of it latest pc line, has indic it will put veri low price on some product it will bring out this year.ibm said last week, for instance, that by rough year end, it will have a product at the price of it entry-level model 25 but that contain the central processor use in it model 50 and 60, which are the middl of it line and cost far more than the model 25. 
 comput autom inc. is an obscure, thin trade california compani that has been plung into a patent controversi in the fractious person comput market.at issu is a comput autom design that intern busi machin corp. quiet arrang to use insid it new line of person computers, the ps/2. 
 rumor circul about the patent last year, but inform was scarc until comput autom last month made a second announcement.it said the patent cover a memori process use insid the top model of the ps/2 line, and said ibm would pay the firm an undisclos royalti on sale of those models. 
 mr. richman said glenview, ill.-bas kraft expect profit increas for the year, but didn't specifi how much.earn also are expect to benefit from a lower tax rate, a productivity-improv campaign that could reduc expens $25 million and the divestitur of kraft duracel batteri unit, celesti season tea line, citrus busi and avoset, a contract packer, the compani said. 
 anticip shelf life of the product would rang from two to four weeks.last year kraft test-market a line of chill chocol and salads. 
 allegi rose 7/8 to 72 on volum of 473,600 shares.ashton-t unveil a new line of dbase iv data base manag softwar design for os-2 and ms-dos-bas person computers. 
 gerald greenwald, chairman of chrysler chrysler motor unit, said that mitsubishi motor corp. will produc the car in japan until a new chrysler-mitsubishi joint-ventur plant in normal, ill., is complet in 1989.the summit will be the third car in the eagl line of chrysler new jeep/eagl division. 
 in miami, the wealthiest latin enclav in the u.s., american express co. plan to featur promin hispan in a spanish-languag version of it portrait campaign.and campbell, asid from promot it soup, is make a major push into the hispan market with a line of caribbean-typ foods. 
 mr. canion also said compaq, which has tradit tri to outpac ibm in hardwar enhancements, was follow ibm in announc the avail of os/2 becaus the oper system "is an area where you don't want two compani fight over which version is right."ibm maintain that os/2 will run faster and with clearer graphic on it person system/2 line of comput than on compar compaq computers. 
 the japanese, meanwhile, are emphas luxuri car with hot engin and price under $30,000.nissan motor co. and toyota motor co. plan to unveil new luxuri line in 1989. 
 however, onli $18.1 million, or 39 cent a share, was attribut to ongo activities, with earn of $80.3 million come from the greyhound capit corp. oper that was sold in octob 1986.in the latest quarter, profit attribut to continu line was $18.5 million, or 49 cent a share. 
 intern busi machin corp. disclos that it comput hardwar profit margin rose at the end of 1987, surpris industri analyst and suggest that it long spell of erod profit may final be over.separately, industri sourc said ibm will make a major mainfram announc next tuesday, and specul that it will includ long-await softwar enhanc that would serv as a midlif kicker for ibm tire mainfram line. 
 isoetec communic inc. of darien, conn., and vodavi technolog corp., scottsdale, ariz., said they complet their plan purchas of the executon divis of contel corp. for $61 million.each compani purchas a 50% stake in executone, which market and servic a line of busi telephon systems. 
 analyst read the results, which were in line with most estimates, as indic that compaq is still success beat back competit from ibm new ps/2 line.th most power comput in that line, which challeng compaq microcomput aim at big businesses, weren't avail in larg quantiti until the fourth quarter. 
 h.j. heinz co., whose star-kist line is a major produc of tuna and pet foods, said it agre to acquir close held bumbl bee seafood inc. of san diego. 
 the latest quarter includ a gain of $2.5 million, or one cent a share, from discontinu operations.year-earli result includ a $2.5 million loss from discontinu lines. 
 analyst estim ibm ship onli 3,000 to 4,000 units.th postal servic contract alon could produc purchas of as mani as 904 ibm minicomput -- either the various model of the 9370 line or a model of the more power 4300 line. 
 qmax technolog group inc., dayton, ohio, said it is offer a new line of skin-treat gel for use by cosmet compani in their skin-car products. 
 e-ii was name as esmark reincarnation.sinc april 1986, he has sold or taken public eight major part of beatrice, includ it intern playtex inc. person product line and avi rental car chain, for about $6.1 billion.kohlberg kravi and it investor are about even on their investment, and beatric most valuabl food line are still unsold. 
 donald kelli is hold talk with kohlberg kravi that could lead to anoth beatric co. spinoff, or to mr. kelli buy one or more of beatric huge food lines. 
 nashua corp. said it agre to buy low-pric copier and relat suppli from mita industri co. of japan for distribut outsid the u.s.nashua said the mita line will complement the midrang ricoh co. copier and expens intern busi machin corp. copier it distribut outsid the u.s. 
 oper profit, exclud a sharp rise in interest expense, more than quadrupl to $43.6 million, main becaus of a rebound in the film entertain unit, which had $24.5 million in pretax earnings, compar with a year-earli oper loss of $49.4 million.but mca said it toy product had a pretax loss of $21.6 million, compar with year-earli profit of $10 million, becaus of disappoint sale and shipment delay in the gotcha! toy line. 
 weyerhaeus co. said earn in it fourth quarter end dec. 27 jump 35% on a 23% sale increase, as the dollar declin strengthen market for mani lines. 
 dure mr. gray tenur at unit technologies, the compani bet billion of dollar on two new engin that, so far at least, aren't pay off.mr. gray cancel a third engin project, leav a gape hole in pratt & whitney line that fanci engin footwork permit ge to fill. 
 chanel also plan to run ad in the wall street journal.consult to the beauty-product busi believ este lauder inc. and cosmair inc. lancom line are like to follow archriv chanel lead in test new media. 
 moreover, mr. gray said, tower are so-cal "open-architecture" computers, mean they are easili adapt to equip made by other companies.analyst said a few other line -- notabl digit equip corp. microvax ii and a seri made by san jose, calif.-bas alto comput system inc. -- are equal tractable. 
 he will be respons for a reorgan market organization, and will continu to overse sales, servic and part operations."thi realign put car and truck under one organization," mr. iacocca said in a statement yesterday, "and will allow us to place increas concentr on domest product-develop activ for all car and truck lines." 
 sequent make comput that har as mani as 30 so-cal parallel microprocessor to provid the power of a convent mainfram comput for a much lower cost.in the fourth quarter, sequent ship 80 comput systems, 37 of which repres the initi shipment of it new symmetri line of comput that use intel corp. state-of-the-art 80386 microprocessors. 
 the long-await clone of intern busi machin corp. new ps/2 line of person comput could be on dealer shelv as soon as may -- and even if custom aren't that eager for them, big blue lawyer are. 
 first, ibm will be take step to improv the posit of it 9370 minicomputer, by far the compani worst product disappoint of 1987.in addition, one of ibm biggest new product of the year will be a potenti lucrat addit to it midrang line. 
 term weren't disclosed.motorola, a maker of semiconductor and electron equipment, said the division, which has annual sale of about $35 million, will complement it exist line of radio frequenc semiconductors, which are use in mobil communications, cabl televis distribution, avionics, and other consum and industri applications. 
 such criticism, particular on the need for new products, "is an easi answer but i'm not sure it the right answer," counter mr. ferri."our tradit competitor don't have a much broader line, but they do better financi than we do. 
 market new interest in children reach far beyond toy counters, however.soni corp. last year introduc it my first soni line of audio product for children four and up. 
 thus, even compani that don't sell to children have come to recogn the need, as texa a&m mr. mcneal put it, "to start grow their custom early."black & decker corp. has licens it name to a line of toy that are miniatur version of it small appliances. 
 in addition, the compani is demand that dealer assign special showroom space, sale personnel and servic technician to the yugo cars.without this commitment, mr. prior worri that dealer will pay more attent to their main car line and "orphan" the yugo, just as sale for all auto maker are head into a slump. 
 quarter sale grew in flight systems, which includ sikorski helicopters, and defens electron and aircraft product lines; build systems, primarili oti elev and carrier air-condit systems; and industri products, such as automot products, essex wire and cable, and control systems.sal slip less than 1%, however, in the segment that includ the pratt & whitney engin lines. 
 analyst say p&g, which has been sell upgrad dispos diaper in europe, recent has come back strong there as a result of an intern restructur and is increas it market share.p&g sell ultra pamper and ultra pamper plus, a more absorb diaper line that has improv fasteners, mr. freedman said. 
 revenu for the latest period jump to $14 million from $8.7 million.softwar presid and chief execut officer, fred m. gibbons, said: "the continu strength in sale growth is a direct result of our success in sell to corpor accounts," with the compani harvard graphic and first choic softwar line pace the advance. 
 the sale agreement is subject to the approv of both compani board and is expect to be complet by may 1.as part of the transaction, avon will keep a minor interest in foster intraven therapi line. 
 compaq comput corp. cut price on it midlevel comput by 10%, cite a "substanti increase" in manufactur capac and a desir to maintain the model competit position.th compani cut price on it line of comput built around the intel corp. 80286 microchip, now the mainstay of medium-pr machin compat with intern busi machin corp. computers. 
 the agenc ultim could forc a recal of the cars.whatev the case, the question rais about the h-bodi car aren't good news for gm, which alreadi is suffer from sluggish sale of it broader line of vehicles. 
 mccormick & co., a maker of spices, flavor and other food products, said it agre in principl to acquir the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from specialti brand inc., a subsidiari of unit biscuit plc. 
 campbel soup co. said it agre in principl to acquir the mari line of refriger salad dressings, the ripe oliv busi and an oliv process plant in spain from the specialti brand inc. unit of unit biscuit plc. 
 as previous reported, appl is expect to use the same forum to announc tomorrow a formal agreement with digit equip corp. for joint develop of product that link comput made by the two companies.appl new laserwrit ii famili of printers, which will replac it previous line of laser printers, will be price from $2,799 to $6,599. 
 mr. blumenth said initi result have been encourag for product design to win new customers.th a1, the low end of a strateg line of midrang computers, sold faster than unisi could produc them in the fourth quarter, he said. 
 most were eventu sold.in july, mr. kelli took beatric non-food and specialti line public as e-ii.american brand line of cigarette, liquor and other consum brand fit mr. kelli expans strategy. 
 west point-pepperel inc., west point, ga., post a 4.7% rise in fiscal first-quart profit from continu operations.a 21% to 24% jump in sale of textil wasn't match by the compani apparel lines. 
 b.a.t, a tobacco, retail and financi servic compani with interest rang from kool cigarett to sak fifth avenu depart stores, said it target farmer last summer as a vehicl for it long-expect expans into the u.s. financi servic industry.in recent years, b.a.t has been diversifi into faster-grow busi such as insur and mortgag lend and away from it slower-grow tobacco lines. 
 revenu rose 16% to $20.7 million from $17.8 million.th san diego-bas distributor of women sportswear said the loss result from loss of $580,000 from the sale of market secur follow black monday, as well as develop cost for new private-label lines. 
 but bill for that account are understood to be smaller than those origin project for the revlon account.separately, advertis agenc execut confirm that hill, holiday, connors, cosmopulo inc. has been select to develop advertis for revlon new clean & clear haircar product line. 
 godfath has introduc a less expensive, thin-crust pie use in it two-for-on specials.it develop the economi line becaus "we didn't want to cannib our premium-product sales," mr. henderson says. 
 burnt by early-1980 problem of excess capacity, a stagnant market and poor profit margins, chemic manufactur shed plant and product drastic until about two year ago, when the restructur began to show modest profits.now compani have enter a hold pattern -- cautious find way to increas output with minor adjustments, expand specialti line where they have littl competition, and begin to diversifi into relat products. 
 minstar said it will concentr on boat manufactur through it 82% ownership of genmar industri inc.minstar sport line includ ben hogan golf clubs, head tenni and ski equipment, and swim gear. 
 whirlpool corp. said it will discontinu it whirlpool brand line of floor-car product by the second quarter of 1988. 
 whirlpool corp. said it will discontinu it whirlpool brand line of floor-car product by the second quarter of 1988.the benton harbor, mich.-bas maker of major home applianc said although the floor-car busi is still attractive, the "premium niche" that it brand line target has becom increas competit and less profit sinc it entri into the market in 1985. 
 maytag acquir the plant in 1986 at the time of it acquisit of magic chef co., admir former parent.maytag said the first phase of the galesburg project, begun last year, is schedul for complet next year and will enabl it to produc it first line of refriger and freezer bear the maytag name. 
 "two or three year ago, that was unheard of."h said the declin also is due in part to fiercer competit from other japanes and korean auto maker that introduc new car line in 1987. 
 bayer also declin comment.ici, which has the stuart line, includ mylanta, say it "wouldn't foreclos on ani interest in expand it pharmaceut group." 
 in 1985, the compani shed a number of it non-food businesses.it spun off it toy busi to creat kenner parker toy inc. and it izod and ship 'n shore fashion line and monet jewelri unit into crystal brand inc. 
 the divis make comput storag tape for commerci customers.th compani said the plan sale will permit it to concentr on it more lucrat militari line of comput products. 
 "but our were up 50% in decemb over last year, and we think after-christma sale look strong too."helen of troy chief busi stem from be north american license for the vidal sassoon trademark on it line of applianc and accessories. 
 analyst have specul that bell & howel might sell it mail-handl equip busi or it intern oper after the merger is finalized.a spokesman for bell & howell, a publish and inform servic compani base in skokie, ill., wouldn't say which line might be sold. 
 nation medical, a close held concern, provid kidney dialysi product and services.grac said it rais it stake as part of a strategi to build a medic technolog busi within grace to complement certain exist specialty-chem lines. 
 american home, which is much larger than robins, would probabl have absorb robin completely, accord to analysts.ror said in it most recent bid last week that it would sell robin prize consum drug line after a merger. 
 ncr corp. unveil two model of it tower line of midrang comput and introduc advanc network softwar to allow the tower famili to oper as a central hub in a network of computers. 
 mr. achenbaum has count among his client some of the most visibl blue-chip advertis in the country, includ nissan, toyota, seagram and backer spielvogel client hyundai and j.p. morgan.at backer spielvogel, he will work with client and potenti client on market strategies; asid from agenc compens issues, he help nissan, for example, come up with it posit and price for it new infin line. 
 in detroit, a chrysler corp. offici said the compani current has no rear-seat lap and shoulder belt in it light trucks, but plan to begin phase them in by the end of the 1990 model year.h said chrysler fulli expect to have them instal across it light-truck line by the sept. 1, 1991, deadline. 
 the addit technology, personnel train and promot effort can be expensive.chem bank spent more than $50 million to introduc it chemplus line, sever packag aim at differ segments, in 1986, accord to thoma jacob, senior vice presid of marketing. 
 reed intern plc said that net incom for the six month end oct. 1 slip 5% to #89.7 million ($141.9 million), or 16 penc a share, from #94.8 million ($149.9 million), or 17.3 penc a share.th british paper, packag and publish concern, said profit from continu line fell 10% to #118 million from #130.6 million. 
 dell comput corp. said it cut price on sever of it person comput line by 5% to 17%. 
 "it quit a bombshell," said one, ad that the offer could spark a period of industri consolidation.th two compani would appear to be a logic fit becaus of their complementari lines, and analyst describ the offer, repres a 36% premium over nekoosa market price, as fair. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade friday, aetna close at $60, down 50 cents.in the latest quarter, aetna had a $23 million loss on it auto/homeown line, compar with earn of $33 million last year. 
 ultim expect the 3 1/2-year agreement to generat $100 million in sales, but it wouldn't estim profit.und term of the pact, ultimate, a computer-system concern, will market the full line of hp 9000 seri 800 multipleus minicomputers. 
 milton roy recent fend off unsolicit overtur from thermo electron corp., a waltham, mass., maker of biomed products.milton roy disclos in may that it was approach for a possibl acquisit by thermo electron, which agre to purchas milton roy liquid-chromatographi line for $22 million in february. 
 then procter & gambl co. agre to buy noxel corp. for $1.3 billion.that acquisition, to be complet by year end, will includ the cover girl and clarion makeup lines, make p&g the top market of cosmet in mass-market outlets. 
 as the trend continues, demand for mass-market item that are high qualiti but onli mid-pric -- particular skin-car product -- is expect to increase.thi fall, for example, l'oreal group, ordinarili a high-end line, roll out a drug-stor line of skin-car product call plenitude, which retail for $5 to $15. 
 accessori not onli sell faster than whole bikes, they also offer profit margin near doubl the 25% to 30% or so on sale of complet cycles.to get a piec of the business, nike inc., beaverton, ore., introduc a line of mountain-bik shoes. 
 general motor corp. chevrolet divis said it is offer $750 cash incent on all 1990 model of it full-siz blazer and suburban truck lines. 
 margeotes, whose client includ godiva and maccabe beer, has had a string of new busi wins.it recent pick up the ad account for haagen-dazs, newsday and for a number of jewelri line from crystal brands. 
 sale rose 8% to $785.1 million from $725.6 million.avon said sale in the direct-sel divis drop 2% as sale of new products, especi gift and jewelri lines, were below expectations. 
 "it the fourth quarter and what might linger beyond that."last month, avon execut indic that the compani would experi a $75 million to $90 million revenu shortag due to weak in it gift and decor lines. 
 kellogg current share is believ to be slight under 40% while general mill share is about 27%.led by it oat-bas cheerio line, general mill has gain an estim 2% share so far this year, most at the expens of kellogg. 
 kellogg is so anxious to turn around corn flake sale that it soon will begin sell box for as littl as 99 cents, trade sourc say."cheerio and honey nut cheerio have eaten away sale normal go to kellogg corn-bas line simpli becaus they are made of oats," say merril lynch food analyst william maguire. 
 bausch & lomb inc. said it plan to introduc next year a new line of sunglass contain melanin, the pigment that protect against damag from ultraviolet rays. 
 cray research inc. forecast that 1990 will be a no-growth year for it supercomput line. 
 adolph coor co. said it coor brew co. unit will test market a new line of bottl water in the west begin earli next year. 
 honda say the five-cylind engin provid a compromis between the fuel-economi of a four-cylinder, and the power of a v-6.it is rumor to be bound for a new model in the luxuri acura line in the u.s., but honda offici wouldn't comment. 
 but those dollar at risk pale in comparison to the invest requir to make and ship spring good to campeau stores."th few million dollar i could lose today is noth against what i could lose on the spring line," say mr. levy, who estim that campeau store will sell $25 million worth of his cloth this year. 
 the hottest rivalri in the comput industri intensifi sharpli yesterday as digit equip corp. announc it first line of mainfram computers, target intern busi machin corp. largest market. 
 the hottest rivalri in the comput industri intensifi sharpli yesterday as digit equip corp. announc it first line of mainfram computers, target intern busi machin corp. largest market.ibm fire back with new mainfram of it own, extend the long-domin 3090 line with a 7% to 14% power boost. 
 in addit to commerci markets, digit new line target the low end of the engin and scientif supercomput market, when it packag with an option supercharger, known as a vector processor.digit push into mainfram come at a time when it mainstay minicomput line is under grow pressur from smaller person comput and workstat that oper on standard oper system rather than on the proprietari system that older minicomput use. 
 "we have a good strong backlog for the fourth quarter even without" the system that were announc yesterday.but the 3090 line is near five year old -- which is get up there in mainfram year -- and it growth is expect to slow in 1990. 
 barri bryant, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc., said tandi also has suffer from letharg sale of it comput aim at the home and small-offic market, which are less-advanc and cheaper than comput aim at the corpor market.tandi has ad sever new product to that line, includ a laptop comput price around $1,000, and is focus it advertis on the easy-to-us softwar that is packag with it machines. 
 he say it import for a new make to be as distinct as possibl while still retain link to the parent compani qualiti image.h applaud toyota and nissan motor co. for creat separ divis for their new luxuri models, rather than simpli ad more namepl to their standard car lines. 
 as a senior vice president, he has head the compani design lingeri division, oscar de la renta, sinc it incept in 1988.to maintain exclus of that design line, it isn't label with the maidenform name. 
 gm interest in jaguar reflect a desir to help diversifi the u.s. compani product in the grow luxury-car segment of the market.it opel line has a solid imag and a recent string of high success new models, but it lack jaguar cachet. 
 winnebago was hit especi hard in the latest downturn becaus unit sale in it bread-and-butt motor home busi tumbl 25% industrywid in august, and 10.4% in the first eight month of the year.th compani said it also suffer in the quarter from incent programs, loss from discontinu a motor home line and cost of develop a new commerci vehicle, among other things. 
 mca inc. said it toy-mak unit agre to buy buddi l corp., produc of a line of toy vehicl and preschool products. 
 design sandra garratt file for chapter 7 bankruptci code protection, say that her cash flow had been cut off.th designer, whose line of modular, one-size-fits-al cloth has spawn a host of clones, has been in a disput with her latest licensee, jerel inc. for sever months. 
 the design attorney, molli bartholow, said that ms. garratt was forc to start bankruptcy-law proceed becaus jerel began withhold her royalti payment last month.jerel paid ms. garratt royalti for the line known as multipl by sandra garratt, which are sold primarili through depart stores.ms. garratt su the dalla apparel maker earlier this year, charg that jerel develop and market cloth line fashion after her designs, in violat of their contract. 
 when fulli operational, the guadalajara factori will employ about 1,500 worker and have annual oper expens of $5 million to $6 million.an at&t repres said that the guadalajara factori will make a full line of answer machines. 
 kurzweil, waltham, mass., make digit electron keyboard instrument use by profession record musicians.it recent introduc a line for the home market. 
 he said the toy compani "prospect for a strong fourth quarter" are also good.mattel attribut the jump in quarter net to strong world-wid sale of it barbi doll, hot wheel cars, disney toy and other well-known toy lines. 
 "they'v got a lot of differ ball in the air at the same time," observ jim poyner, a comput secur analyst with dallas-bas william k. woodruff & co. mr. dell, meanwhile, conced the compani was "definit too optimistic" in it expectations.product delays, however, have left dell buffet by harsher competit in it bread-and-butt line of desktop computers, as powerhous competitor compaq comput corp. and intern busi machin corp. price their pcs more aggressively. 
 sluggish sale of the beretta and corsica spur gm to offer $800 rebat on those cars.th corsica and beretta make up the highest-volum car line at chevrolet, but sale of the car are off 9.6% for the year, and fell a steep 34.2% earli this month. 
 he blame imports.but just down seventh avenue, where about 75% of u.s. fur garment are made, larri rosen has acquir two retail outlets, broaden his fur-mak line and expand into leather. 
 inspir by imports, mr. rosen now make fur muffs, hat and flings.thi year he produc a men line and offer dy fur in red, cherri red, violet, royal blue and forest green. 
 "it the miss link" in olivetti product line between small person comput and higher-pr minicomputers, the olivetti spokesman said.h ad that olivetti will continu make it lsx minicomput line. 
 a spokesman also said margin for the compani servic busi narrow somewhat becaus of heavi invest made in that sector.th lack of a strong product at the high end of digit line was a signific drag on sales. 
 he ad gross margin and oper profit "erod quit dramatically" from the prior quarter, along with sale of exist softwar product line like multim and framework."th success of a new product in the databas line is needed. 
 general motor corp. chevrolet division, react to slow sales, said it will offer $800 rebat on it 1990 beretta, the two-door version of it core compact-car line. 
 sluggish sale of the beretta, and it four-door sister car, the corsica, prompt gm to idl the two plant that build the automobil for a total of three week this month.th corsica and beretta make up the highest-volum car line at chevrolet, but sale of the vehicl are off 9.6% for the year, and fell a steep 34% dure earli october. 
 new customers, the sourc of higher commiss for salespeopl and the key to wang long-term viability, are even tougher.rick lynch, a former top salesman in wang boston office, refer to wang mainstay comput line, says: "you can't sell a vs to a new customer." 
 renault and daf truck nv announc a preliminari agreement to joint manufactur a line of truck in britain and france. 
 digit equip corp. is plan a big coming-out parti on tuesday for it first line of mainfram computers. 
 the heighten competit will hit ibm at a difficult time.th comput giant current mainfram line, which has sold well and has huge profit margins, is start to show it age. 
 amdahl corp., back by japan fujitsu ltd., has a grow share of the market with it low-priced, ibm-compat machines.and nation advanc systems, a joint ventur of japan hitachi ltd. and general motor corp. electron data systems, is expect to unveil a line of power ibm-compat mainfram later this year. 
 aim at commerci photographers, the film can be use in veri low light without sacrif quality, say donald franz of photofinish newsletter.also tri to snare a portion of the $2 billion-a-year industri is agfa corp., a unit of bayer ag. agfa recent sign olymp gold medalist florenc griffith-joyn to endors a new line of black-and-whit paper that gear to consum and will compet direct with kodak papers. 
 automat call processor will provid that system for virtual ani telephone, mr. pierc said, not just phone produc by elcotel.th compani will also be produc a new line of conveni telephones, which don't accept coins, for use in hotel lobbies, offic lobbies, hospit loung and similar settings. 
 maxtor said it result were boost by $2 million in payment receiv from a supplier, for a certain line of product that maxtor isn't go to sell anymore.maxtor said effect from discontinu the line may have a posit effect on futur earn and revenue. 
  new account: procter & gambl co., cincinnati, award the ad account for it line of profession crisco veget shorten and oil product to northlich, stolley, lawarre, cincinnati. 
 soni corp. won a pretrial order block u.s. sale of justin product inc. "mi own" line of portabl audio player for children. 
 soni corp. won a pretrial order block u.s. sale of justin product inc. "mi own" line of portabl audio player for children.judg john e. sprizzo issu the order in manhattan feder court, where soni has accus the tini compani of illeg knock off the "mi first sony" line. 
 the disk drive will doubtless sell well when they final becom available.but the as/400, ibm high success minicomput line, is lose it momentum, and some analyst said sale could even declin in the fourth quarter. 
 the latest evid of that is the decis to idl the fairfax, kan., plant that make the grand prix less than three week into the new model year.th grand prix is one of gm newest line of cars, the so-cal gm-10 midsiz cars. 
 in the year-earli period, hasbro earn $18.1 million, or 31 cent a share, on $368.4 million in revenue.th pawtucket, r.i., manufactur is count on record breakers, a new line of high-perform model race car now be rush to market. 
 mattel inc., base in hawthorne, calif., is expect to report more bullish number than it did a year ago.help by boom sale in it barbi doll line, hot wheel race car and disney toy for preschoolers, mattel per-shar earn should jump by better than 50% to about 70 cents, estim mr. mcgowan. 
 at pittsburgh asp inc., which introduc it first anti-virus softwar in 1985, "we ship out 80 copi (at $35 each) last week," say founder fred cohen, who present the first comput virus to the research communiti in 1983.after ad certus, a $189 anti-virus comput program, to it line of system manag softwar in earli 1988, foundat ware inc., cleveland, has quadrupl sale everi quarter, say founder peter tippett. 
 other undoubt will follow, but most analyst believ compaq has at least a six-month lead on the competition.toshiba line of portables, for example, featur the t-1000, which is in the same weight class but is much slower and has less memory, and the t-1600, which also use a 286 microprocessor, but which weigh almost twice as much and is three time the size. 
 repli a justin salesman: "exactly."th justin merchandis carri wholesal price some 40% below those of soni corp. of japan "mi first sony" line. 
 now sony, whose innovative, premium-pr product are among the most admir in consum electronics, is bitter complain about a littl u.s. firm with a cheap look-alik produc in china."th gist of this is that justin knock off the soni line and soni want to stop it," say lewi h. eslinger, soni attorney, who previous guard rubik cube. (soni itself declin to comment.) if soni wins, mr. esling says, it littl rival will have to tri to sell the product overseas. 
 mr. kay deni the suit charg and say his onli mistak was take on soni in the marketplace."i made a similar line and i produc it cheaper," he says. 
 the compani has grown -- to about 40 employees, from four initially, mr. kay says.justin has been profit sinc 1986, add the official, who share his offic with numer teddi bears, all sampl from his line of plush toys. 
 justin has been profit sinc 1986, add the official, who share his offic with numer teddi bears, all sampl from his line of plush toys.lik mani others, mr. kay took notic in 1987 when sony, in a classic exampl of market segmentation, chang the plastic skin and button on the famous walkman line of portabl audio equip and creat the my first soni line for children.th bright color new product look more like toy than the adult models. (in court papers, soni say it has spent more than $3 million to promot the line, with result sale of over a million units.) 
 but intel later succumb to the stock market plunge, close at $31.75, down $2.125.in august, intel warn that third-quart earn might be "flat to down" from the previous period becaus of slow sale growth of it 80386 microprocessor, start-up cost associ with a line of comput and cost of prepar for mass shipment of the compani new 80486 chip in the current quarter. 
 intern paper co. third-quart net incom rose 6.5%, reflect "solid performances" by pulp and paper busi and contribut from specialti line and acquisitions. 
 bull hn, 69%-own by group bull, the big french comput maker, said the new product line includ the dpx/2, base on the industri standard unix oper system, and the dps 6000, base on a proprietari design.th 6000 signific extend bull exist dps line, which has sold 60,000 unit world-wide. 
 he fill one of two vacanc creat last year when two of the compani co-founders, thoma ong, execut vice president, finance, and mason tarkeshian, execut vice president, operations, resigned.cm make and distribut a broad line of enhanc product for person computers. 
 xylog inc., burlington, mass., said it reach an agreement under which unisi corp. will buy as much as $50 million of it comput system over the next five years.xylog said unisi will be buy it new annex ii termin servers, a line it acquir from encor comput corp. last december. 
 the fiberworld product are base on a new set of intern standard for fiber-opt telecommun equip put in place last year.northern telecom is the first compani to launch a complet line of switch and transmiss product base on the new standards, known as synchron optic networking, or sonet. 
 northern telecom say it product will roll out over 18 month begin earli next year and will begin contribut to revenu and earn by earli 1991.burt wolder, a spokesman for american telephon & telegraph co., said his compani is "develop a full line of sonet product and expect to announc them very, veri soon." 
 renault lack an up-market label and an intern presence.volvo lack a full line of auto product and a signific presenc in the ec. 
 with the industri on the brink of sweep change, volvo may be feel vulner and readi to seek a partner to share product-develop cost and make it more of an an ec insider."a volvo-renault combin would creat a full line of auto product under one umbrella with total product of about two million unit a year, or about 20% of the european market, analyst say. 
 nevertheless, wcrs might consid bddp as a backup if it talk with eurocom fall through, some industri execut suggested.wcr initi announc last month that it was in talk to sell a portion of it ad business; it hope to larg remov itself from the agenc busi in order to concentr on it more profit line, media-buying. 
 general housewar corp. agre to sell most of it leys cookwar line and a relat manufactur plant in wisconsin to vollrath co., sheboygan, wis. 
 and japan big dai-ichi kangyo bank recent agre to invest as much as $100 million into a clayton & dubili buy-out fund.martin h. dubilier, chairman and chief execut officer, said he valu the new subsidiari and it big a line of auto part becaus of it wide distribut network. 
 now, encourag by some recent growth, the toiletri compani are polish their market strategies, and the busi is begin to show sign of life.even gillett co., which has tradit concentr on mainstream products, say it plan a "more upscale" line of men toiletries, probabl for sale through it tradit outlets, such as drugstores. 
 it a lesson that hasn't escap gruen well-heel competition.aramis, which roll out it lab seri line of unscent men groom product three year ago, focus on skin problem caus by shaving, such as razor burn. 
 but mention the word wrinkl and they'r like to flee.to eas custom embarrassment, compani are begin to establish separ locat for their men lines. 
 in it five-year effort, hershey has learn that transform a tradit dish like pasta isn't easy.th compani experi in develop it perfect line illustr the difficulti inher in creat a new food item. 
 last year, chrysler put about 60% of that budget into tv, and about 40% in magazin and newspapers.major auto makers, both domest and foreign, have usual support their automobil line with massiv advertis budget place larg in television.th shift by chrysler repres the largest proport of an ad budget dedic to print by a car line of a major u.s. auto manufactur in at least two decades, accord to jim guthrie, execut vice presid of market develop for the magazin publish of america, an industri group. 
 auto maker are the largest categori of advertis in magazines, spend $800 million in 1988, an increas of 17% from 1987.the shift in spend is part of a stepped-up campaign by chrysler to promot it high-end chrysler brand, which includ the imperial, new yorker, salon, lebaron, and town & countri lines. 
 nissan execut will unveil their spend plan for the 1990 model year at a car dealer show later this month.however, it clear nissan is use magazin heavily, as well as tv, to introduc it new infin line of luxuri cars. 
 other auto maker have show a decid prefer for tv.for example, mr. vitulli said chrysler corp. lower-pr plymouth auto line will spend 10% of it media budget on print and 90% on broadcast tv and cable. 
 "we are look to target nich -- young women, older peopl and others," he said."we'l use core public for the entir brand, along with magazin meant for specif lines." 
 now the battl is head in the opposit direction.bayerisch motoren werk ag yesterday said it freez or cut price on it entir u.s. 1990 model line. 
 it also froze the price of the 190e 2.6 with automat transmiss at $32,500, despit ad electr adjust front seats, which were a $950 option on the 1989 model.pric on the remaind of mercedes-benz u.s. line now will rang from $39,950 for the 300e 2.6 with automat transmiss to $83,500 for the 500sl two-seat convertible, which is new this year. 
 but previously, it had emphas that it wouldn't need to sell them.mr. boksen say he expect to see more asset sales-of hbj insur unit and perhap of some of it publish line -- even if publish rebounds. 
 still, unisi has dug itself a deep hole and will have to work hard mere to regain it posit of a year ago.despit pent-up demand for a new line of mainframes, it has general been lose ground in the mainfram and minicomput markets. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it is offer a holiday promot involv person comput at the low end and in the middl of it ps/2 line. 
 but while businessmen general welcom this year unexpect econom surge, they recogn that the underground economi is a double-edg sword.execut of the food unit of giant grupo alfa are elat about this year 100% sale increas in the compani most inexpens line of cold meats, whose biggest buyer are underground mom-and-pop stores. 
 term of the agreement weren't disclosed.th license are modern shirt intern and modern shirt industri ltd. and kangaroo u.s.a. inc. jeep offici said the shirt compani will produc and distribut a line of jeep sportswear to be retail through depart stores, while kangaroo will produc and distribut jeep athlet and casual shoe that will be sold through independ shoe stores. 
 although ibm is expect to introduc slight faster version of it mainfram this year, the machin will be five year old next year -- long in the tooth by mainfram standard -- and competitor are expect to bring out new products.ibm as/400 line, which has done spectacular well in the first 15 month of it life, is see growth slow. 
 the ibm spokesman confirm that ibm had made the retir offer to mani of the 23,000 employe at four manufactur sites.they are in manassas, va., and owego, n.y., where ibm make special equip for defens contracts; in endicott, n.y., where it make the 9370 minicomput line; and in lexington, ky., where it produc typewrit and printers. 
 and that should be much less of a problem next year when the comparison becom easier.but ibm also cite a delay in the introduct of a new line of high-end disk drives, the latest in a seri of manufactur and develop glitch this year that analyst have said could be link to the loss of skill employe in these early-retir programs. 
 the car isn't all-american, however: mazda, of which ford own 25%, did much of the engin on the vehicle.th most wide public luxuri car of the new model year are clear nissan infin line, which goe on sale nov. 8, and toyota lexus cars, which have been avail sinc august. 
  four-wheel drive mercedes-benz add four-wheel-dr car to it u.s. line for the first time with the 300e 4matic sedan and 300te 4matic station wagon. 
 the layoff come as cray phase out product of it labor-intens x-mp line-hand-wir machin -- in favor of a model that, becaus of factori automation, higher-dens chip and other advances, can be made in one-third the time.moreover, where a central process unit in the old model had 30,000 parts, those in the new y-mp line have 310. 
 a sear spokesman declin to comment.vermont is a major supplier of part for sear line of tools. 
 dan benton, an analyst at goldman, sach & co., said he expect to cut his estim to $9 a share for the year, well below the ibm range.th wild card in all this is the disk-driv line, whose problem could be clear up soon or could persist for months. 
 ibm, which get some $6 billion of it $60 billion of revenu from such drives, is expect to decid soon on how to proceed.ibm need to get the drive out soon becaus competitor have caught up with ibm current line, and ibm must onc again leapfrog them if it is to escap the price war that has developed. 
 europa eyewear corp. sell 22-karat gold frame for around $250, "good for clinch that wall street deal."custom want "differ glass for boat than for skiing," say a market for allegra inc. ziari line of sunglasses. 
 in addition, the compani said it sale and servic personnel will target new market for the system.debug the softwar for the two-year old i/a seri was "far more complex than . . . with our earlier lines," but "is now in place and functioning." 
 but he said he interced with japanes ministri and won "a liber interpret of the rules."mr. butler said he agre to the purchas becaus it would give avx access to a broad line of part that it could sell in europe, where avx current generat 25% of it $408 million of annual sales.mr. butler also cite kyocera technology; while avx and kyocera both make capacitors, kyocera also make a broad line of electronics, includ printer heads, liquid crystal display and person computers. 
 the quarter earn were better than the $1.15 a share that mr. berko had projected, and the analyst said he is now like to increas his full-year earn estim of $3.20 a share.in addit to sever posit devlop at the compani in recent weeks, includ an agreement with singer michael jackson to design and market a line of fashion sneaker and other apparel, analyst have attribut at least a part of the recent stock increas to arbitrag cover their short positions. 
 mr. urbanski believ michelin will use it own name as well as the goodrich t/a brand, popular among sporti car enthusiasts, to tri to increas market share at chrysler.th goodrich t/a line is alreadi origin equip on some chrysler jeep products. 
 the fund close at 16 1/4 on 1.2 million shares.intern busi machines, which introduc three new comput model for small busi and a number of enhanc to it personal-comput line, ad 1 1/4 to 117 1/2. 
 toyota motor corp., in an aggress bid to boost u.s. market share, is rais 1990 base price on it most popular car line by 2.5% or less from 1989 levels. 
 execut here also said that at&t is consid manufactur it own facsimil machin and could someday make it own person computers.at&t recent agre to have a new line of person comput made by intel corp. 
 earlier this spring, the compani launch cholesterol-fre mayonnais and miracl whip.last week, it introduc sealtest free, which it bill as the first nation brand of "nonfat" ice cream and began test a line of fat-fre salad dressings. 
 ---toyota is rais price on it most popular car line for 1990 by 2.5% or less in an aggress attempt to increas it u.s. market share. --- 
 general motor corp. pontiac divis said it plan to boost it total vehicl sale by about 6% in the 1990 model year, main becaus of sale of a new plastic-bodi minivan.but pontiac offici also conced that they expect sale of their primari midsiz car line, the pontiac grand prix, won't be enough to assur that the gm plant exclus dedic to the model will work at full capac in the 1990 model year. 
 but pontiac offici also conced that they expect sale of their primari midsiz car line, the pontiac grand prix, won't be enough to assur that the gm plant exclus dedic to the model will work at full capac in the 1990 model year.pontiac modest expect for the grand prix, one of four line gm design as part of it $5 billion gm-10 midsiz car program, is anoth sign that despit the recent announc that the compani will indefinit idl a plant in lakewood, ga., gm has a long way to go to solv it cost overcapac problem. 
 sale of the two-year-old grand prix coupe, however, will fall to 105,000 vehicl in 1990 from about 118,000 car in the 1989 model year that end sept. 30, pontiac offici predicted.but the modern fairfax, kan., plant that build the grand prix line is capabl of produc more than 250,000 car a year. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it has ask computer-accessori maker to produc adaptor card for it ps/2 line of comput that will enabl them to transfer data two to four time faster than they current do. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it has ask computer-accessori maker to produc adaptor card for it ps/2 line of comput that will enabl them to transfer data two to four time faster than they current do.ibm said the card will unlock capabl alreadi built into it ps/2 line, which featur the so-cal micro channel data pathway. 
 it was the agenc first u.s. client.it cover girl line, which linta suggest and help develop, is now the largest-sel cosmet line in the country. 
 if procter must choos anoth agenc for noxel -- either becaus it pull the account or unilev pressur linta into resign the account -- it will find it choic extrem limited, as most major agenc not work for procter are work for it competitors.noxel use a second major agency, chicago-bas leo burnett, for it clarion line; burnett is alreadi a procter agenc and could be consid for futur assignments. 
 noxel use a second major agency, chicago-bas leo burnett, for it clarion line; burnett is alreadi a procter agenc and could be consid for futur assignments.meanwhile, industri execut alreadi have begun specul that linta might take on anoth cosmet line, such as maybelline, a unit of schering-plough. 
 last fall, the cosmet maker launch a market initi dub "the nines," design to boost it visibl in toni depart stores.ov the years, revlon had acquir prestig cosmet line such as charl of the ritz and princess marcella borghese, but had no comprehens market strategi for them.und the nine program, the compani gather all nine of it upscal cosmet line -- encompass some 3,000 item -- at a singl cosmet counter with a special nine banner. 
 competitor say revlon sale staff was unabl to master the vast array of product they were expect to push.and the attempt to sell custom more than one cosmet line per visit undermin effort to build brand loyalty."consum buy differ piec from differ lines," said a market execut at one competitor. 
 ad to revlon difficulties, the compani claim that 200 retail nationwid grew impati with the pace of the rollout and implement their own version of the nines.thes independent-mind retail lump togeth all of revlon lines, without wait for market support from headquart or proper train for their sale help. 
 sale rose 27% to $199 million from $157.2 million.th compani said it salon select line was one of the fastest grow brand in the industri in the quarter. 
 n.v. philip and it partner have grant a japanes firm exclus right to promot and market equip for supplier of a new line of prerecord audio/visu compact-disk product in asia. 
 joseph kozloff, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert, lower his estim to $8.30 a share from $8.50, but left 1991 at $9.75.along with noxema and cover girl, noxel give p&g the line of clarion cosmetics, lestoil cleaner and wick fowler two alarm chili, a season for chili. 
 union carbid corp. said it is expand it line of substitut for chlorofluorocarbon use in make foam cushioning. 
 but this is it first ventur into the $1.5 billion mass market cosmet business.noxel cover girl and clarion line have a combin 25.4% share, follow by maybelline, with 17.7% and revlon, with 13.9%. 
 yesterday, ibm stock rose 12.5 cent to close at $116.125 a share, while baxter intern common close unchang at $22.25, both in new york stock exchang composit trading.separately, ibm announc that it had author the open of 41 new dealership that will sell it ps/2 person comput line, mark the end of a moratorium it declar four year ago. 
 -- set up a fur-product factori as earli as next year.-- diversifi into other line of soviet business, includ trade in textiles, syring and condoms. 
 heredity, junk food and a couch-potato environ have combin to produc a generat of overweight youth.but at last partner think the number still aren't larg enough to persuad tradit apparel firm to creat a line of overs cloth stock in depart store and specialti outlets. 
 buoy by a $16,000 invest from ms. runyon husband, they measur dozen of overweight children, inquir about like and dislikes, and produc their own size scheme, which rang from 23-inch to 50-inch waist and weight from 55 pound to 300 pounds.th entrepreneur becam convinc they were on the right track at an august 1986 display in a church basement: 70 parent of overweight children show up to view at last line, which consist of some fabric swatch stuck on a bulletin board and a hand of trouser samples. 
 "it someth you should in good conscienc do," he added.gm alreadi has made front-seat headrest or high-back seat standard equip on eight of it 12 truck lines. 
 the greet card compani attribut it improv perform to last year cost-sav measures, includ the sale or close of sever subsidiaries.th compani also said it "couples" card line, introduc in july, had brisk sales. 
 at the office-furnitur factory, an autom assembl line dunk deskleg into an electropl bath.at the fashion warehouse, a manag check design for the kibbutz-mad line of women apparel. 
 the 1990 accord lx will start at $14,895, up 5% from the year-earli price of $14,180.at the top of the accord line, honda essenti consolid two model into one. 
 in 1985, p&g post it first annual earn declin sinc 1952 -- a 29% drop to $635 million.mainstay lines, such as toothpast and diapers, were get hammer by the competition: crest market share alon fell to 30.5% in 1985 from 40% in 1977; pamper share drop around 40 point to 33% over rough the same time. 
 yet, in the interven years, p&g has bold chang how and where it doe business.determin to take advantag of grow market overseas, the compani turn around it earli debacl in japan, where it diaper and deterg line in particular were faltering. 
 p&g su the cooki maker for patent infring and recent won a $125 million settlement from nabisco, keebler and frito-lay.but while copycat competitor certain hurt, mr. tucker, the former p&g manager, also say the compani was too slow develop a full line of cookies, with a varieti of flavors. 
 "if the disappoint is deep enough anoth hostil offer may be . . . forthcoming."mr. preston, respond to this criticism, said through a spokesman, "there was no way in may to forecast that the gift and jewelri line would underperform in the fourth quarter. 
 that particular startl when one consid that most cook were will to devot 30 minut to meal prepar a scant 10 year ago and about an hour in the earli 70s.accordingly, campbel soup is test a microwav soup line for all the peopl who find it too tax to open a can and pour the content into a pot. 
 the japanes threat to the european is onli get worse.last month toyota motor corp. launch it luxuri lexus line in the u.s., and in novemb nissan motor co. is unveil it infin models. 
 the worst gas guzzler in the epa annual rate isn't for sale in the u.s. -- chrysler italian import two-seat italian-mad lamborghini countach.a 1990 model of the $155,000 sport car was test by the epa and got 6 mpg in citi drive and 10 mpg on the highway, but the manufactur say a replac line will be introduc in the u.s. this year. 
 the hawthorne, calif., toy maker sale for the quarter end juli 1 were $272.3 million, up 31% from last year $207.1 million.john w. amerman, chairman and chief execut officer, said retail and consum demand has remain "veri strong" for it core brand as well as a line of licens disney infant and preschool toys. 
 ---boe profit jump 20% in the quarter, but the aircraft maker said it still face major challeng and risk in commerci and militari lines. 
 despit the stock market negat expectations, it appear that differ segment of the personal-comput industri are experienc sharpli differ growth trends.generally, demand is strong for high-perform hardware, such as appl macintosh, compaq 386 machin and intern busi machin corp. ps/2 line of computers. 
 the unit, base in fort washington, pa., has three manufactur plant and about 1,100 employees.ralston, base in st. louis, said beechnut fit into it array of other food lines, includ such cereal for children as cooki crisp. 
 pepsico wine & spirit intern said it plan to introduc priviet, a premium vodka from russia, in the u.s. in october.priviet, whose ad pitch will be "serious vodka you don't have to take too seriously," will be price around $10 a bottle, compar with the $13 general charg for pepsico stolichnaya line of russian vodkas. 
 the compani announc that r.k. patel, one of par founders, took a voluntari leav of absenc as senior vice presid and director, and that jeffrey m. levine, execut vice president, and barri s. geller, vice president, regulatori affairs, took voluntari leav of absenc from the board.par, which had fiscal 1988 sale of $99.6 million from a line of sever hundr products, said it didn't believ there were ani advers health or safeti implic involved. 
 pier 1 import inc., fort worth, texas, said net incom was flat at $7.3 million in it second quarter end aug. 26.the specialti retail said in juli that it expect the result to be flat becaus of discount in some lines, particular cotton apparel. 
 chrysler was the loser among the big three with auto sale down 18.5% to 24,419.a bright spot for the no. 3 auto maker was it truck sale -- includ the top-sel minivan and the jeep line, which rose 4.1% to 30,377. 
 ford motor co. is bet that the tradition-mind buyer of it heftiest car will accept the "aero" style that now character most of the compani model line. 
 ford is build a stamp plant at wayn and ad a second shift of worker at hermosillo.th mexican plant current build onli the tracer and will continu to build the mercuri subcompact after it get the escort line. 
 who bad?l.a. gear inc. said it has sign singer michael jackson to design and market world-wid a line of michael jackson fashion sneakers. 
 but a new comput design scrambl that strategy, and digit has fumbl for month in tri to project a coher new theme, even as it brought out a blizzard of new products.in just a year, the compani rebuilt it entir vax minicomput line. 
 but the mess in sale isn't the onli problem that slow revenu growth into singl digit in the latest quarter.in a cost gamble, digit decid last year to cancel a major comput design, leav big custom without a replac at the high end of it line. 
 like mani competitors, digit was caught off guard by the clamor for standard software.although it vax line has been enorm popular, fuel digit explos growth sinc 1985, more and more custom don't want to get hook on comput base on proprietari software. 
 and most standard softwar isn't yet suit for hard-cor commerci computing, such as on-lin transact processing.typ transaction-process tasks, in which hundr of termin interact with a database, includ airlin reservations, on-lin retail-sal track and bank teller networks, and such oper are a prime target for the vax line, especi the 9000. 
 it new line, price substanti below the vax, run on unix oper softwar with chip from mip comput system inc.at first, digit couldn't come up with a clear market theme for the two lines. 
 ibm competitor are expect to benefit from a delay of even a few months."digit is go to have more than 200 softwar packag run on it workstat by the time ibm is shipping," said marc g. schulman, an analyst with ub secur inc. abund softwar packag are critic to the success of a comput line. 
 the focus of most of the attent today is in the market for machin base on the unix softwar oper system.mr. schulman call digit decstat line "the absolut leader in price performance" in that market. 
 ford declin to specifi how much it will spend in the five years.but kenneth f. smith, ford heavy-truck oper manager, said the compani will "have modern or replac everi product in the ford heavy-truck line." 
 but kenneth f. smith, ford heavy-truck oper manager, said the compani will "have modern or replac everi product in the ford heavy-truck line."ford said it will move some product of it cargo line of medium and heavy-duti truck from brazil to ford kentucki truck plant in louisville, ky. 
 a ford spokesman said it isn't clear whether the addit of the cargo truck will requir an expans of the kentucki truck plant.ford offici said product of the cargo line is expect to begin in the fourth quarter of 1990. 
 "now it ford turn to step forward with new product to keep pace."ford mr. smith said the compani is work on a new gas engin with electron port fuel injection, an expand line of diesel engin with electron controls, and new class 8 heavy-duti truck tractors, among other projects. 
 the cell-biolog product are solut use to grow cells.hana has said that it was sell the line becaus further develop of them would have pull the compani away from it strateg focus -- cell-transpl research and develop programs. 
 as part of it direct sale restructuring, on-lin will halt direct sale of it case-pac product, which repres about 1% to 2% of sales.th compani said it also refocus it rami information-product line to includ a joint direct marketing/telemarket effort.th rami line repres about 15% of total sales. 
 in an interview, david f. parkinson, chief financi officer, said phoenix will book a restructur charg for the current quarter.h said the compani has tighten it revenue-recognit polici and will drop it effort to provid basic softwar to manufactur of comput that are base on the sparc microprocessor line from sun microsystem inc. 
 ---nissan motor is cut price on a key compact car line in a bid to boost it u.s. market share at the expens of the big three and other rivals. 
 steyr will hold 20% in the new subsidiary, while man will have manag control.th announc of the transact came after daf n.v., an anglo/dutch auto maker, said it drop it offer to take over steyr truck line after man made a higher counteroffer. 
 wang laboratori inc. unveil a new midrang minicomput line, the vs 8000 series, to replac it vs 7000 line. 
 the recal drug includ sever form of darvon, methadone, two anti-infect and an anti-inflammatori agent.lilli spokesman said the drug were most "older line products" sold either under the lilli or dista labels. 
 in composit trade yesterday on the new york stock exchange, lilli share fell 75 cent to close at $59.625.the investig by the food and drug administr did not includ lilli largest drug line such as it oral antibiotic, ceclor, or prozac, it anti-depress drug. 
 "it what everyon is tri to do."th chip also give the santa clara, calif., compani a broader line of high-end chips. 
 the dairi operations, base in johnson city, tenn., produc milk, ice cream and cottag chees in the carolinas, florida, georgia, tennessee, virginia and part of west virginia.th compani isn't discontinu ani dairi lines, mr. melsheim said. 
 the propos dividend may help save kohlberg kravi from possibl investor critic that it overpaid for beatrice.two year ago, some beatric insid boast that by sell off the compani assets, includ it line of wesson cook oil and hunt tomato products, investor would earn a pre-tax profit that could exceed $3 billion. 
 it sale are strongest in scandinavian countri and france, although it has sale offic throughout europe.th micron line primarili is use for gather data in the field. 
 the price of the cheapest 1990 stanza model will be $11,450, or $749 less than that of it less power predecessor.nissan decis is the latest in a seri of move by foreign auto maker to cut price on import car line at a time when the big three u.s. auto maker are aggress rais base price on most of their 1990 models. 
 vitro technolog bent is a legaci of adrian sada sr., an emin practic engin who remain the group chairman.once, at a product present for vitro refriger line, visitor were taken aback when the chairman roll up his sleeves, open a toolbox and repair a faulti unit. 
 one of the new model use intern busi machin corp. micro channel data bus design, mark ncr first use of the technology.separately, ncr unveil a new member of it tower 32 comput line, built around motorola inc. 68030 microprocessor. 
 the partnership, control by money manag martin zweig and former drexel market director eugen glaser, will renam the fund zweig seri trust, zweig cash fund and zweig tax-fre fund.th sale of it fund line stem from drexel decis earlier this year to shed it brokerage-offic operations. 
 honda is expect to unveil a redesign accord later this month, and dealer say they expect the car to be larger and more expens than the current compact model.th civic and crx line -- includ some of honda cheapest car -- account for about 30% of the compani total u.s. car sales. 
 the price of honda least expens model, the civic dx hatchback with a four-spe manual transmission, will rise 3.9% to $6,635 from $6,385, the spokesman said.th most expens holdov model in the civic line, the four-wheel drive wagon with automat transmission, will have a base price of $13,140, up 2.6% from $12,810 in 1989. 
 use text-search software, the product will allow analyst and m&a specialist at banks, brokerages, and compani to quick find and analyz potenti deal by compar them with past deals.th product is the sixth in lotus line of one sourc cd-base inform services. 
 duncan hine "flavor was never as good as it should'v been," say gordon tucker, a former p&g brand manag who help develop the cookies.whil he assert that p&g was hurt by competitor copi the technology, he add that p&g simpli got beat becaus nabisco "move veri fast" and introduc a full line of cookies. 
 "the bottom line here is that the fragranc busi just doesn't fit with avon door-to-door sell business," said andrew shore, an analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. "assum the fragranc busi is worth what avon paid for it, the compani is better off use the money to reduc debt.mr. shore, as well as sever other analysts, specul that avon decid to investig the possibl sale of it fragranc line follow a privat meet mr. preston had late last month with minneapoli investor irwin jacobs. 
 nissan motor co. and toyota motor corp. are introduc luxuri model in the u.s. this fall for $35,000 to $40,000 each.th price for nissan infin and toyota lexus give the japanes maker an edg over most european luxuri cars, but still general exceed the price of ford lincoln line and general motor cadillac division. 
 nissan motor corp., in a bid to boost market share at the expens of detroit big three auto maker and other rival in a sluggish sale environment, said it is cut price on an import compact car line. 
 in what it describ as a major introduction, nestl s.a. stouffer food corp. is roll out a new line of low-cholesterol, low-fat, and low-sodium entre call right course. 
 stouffer said right cours packag will tell consum the exact amount of cholesterol, fat and sodium in a given entre and also provid the american heart associ recommend for total averag daili intake.earli this year, conagra inc. introduc a similar line call healthi choice. 
 but instead of melt the cooki over an open fire, they go into a microwav oven.most of the other product are simpli line extens of exist best-sel that don't repres much of an innov gamble. 
  new account: nation footbal leagu properties, new york, name grey advertising, new york, agenc of record for it nfl merchandis line call team nfl. bill weren't disclosed. 
 commodor intern ltd. u.s. unit said it sign an agreement for connect point of america inc., a larg chain, to carri it person computers.harri copperman, presid of the unit, said in an interview that the agreement is aim primarili at west chester, pa.-bas commodor amiga line. 
 you have to build an aw big compani to get a reason return."such invest are risk more easili by larg companies, such as intern busi machin corp. and apple, that can subsid research and develop out of profit from older lines. 
 other factor also aid exist companies.although the comput market is much larger than it was 10 year ago, most custom now have settl on comput line to use in obvious applications. 
 the u.s. sale arm of japan mazda motor corp. has set up a task forc to studi the feasibl of establish a second dealer network in the u.s.mazda current sell a line of import and u.s.-mad car and truck through 844 dealer nationwide. 
 ---ibm plan to announc today some model of it as/400 minicomput line and a new releas of it operating-system software, sourc said. 
 cincinnati milacron inc. said it complet the purchas of hayssen manufactur co. line of extrus blow-mold machin and will take over the busi of manufacturing, sell and servic this equipment. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc two model of it as/400 minicomput line and a new releas of the operating-system software. 
 he make an authorit spokesman.a member of one of the hand of distinguish famili that domin the art, he belong to the kabuki act line of omodaka, which has flourish for six generations. 
 intern busi machin corp. will announc today some model of it as/400 minicomput line and a new releas of it operating-system software, industri execut said. 
 in armonk, n.y., an ibm spokesman said the compani has schedul a press brief for today relat to it midrang product line but declin to elaborate.th industri execut said ibm will announc model in the middl of the as/400 line to get custom to upgrad from the ibm system 36, the less power of the two line that ibm combin into the as/400. 
 mr. cohen said that becaus of the weak he has cut his forecast of as/400 shipment this year to between 55,000 and 60,000 machines, down from his project late last year of 70,000 to 75,000.he added, though, that he doesn't think that pose a problem for ibm this year, becaus it is exceed it expect at the high end of the as/400 line.us of ibm system 38 -- the more power line that was merg into the as/400 -- have bought lot of the high-end machin becaus mani were desper for more comput capac and move their softwar was easy. 
 the electrolux appliances, import from europ and the u.s., will begin appear at sharp outlet in october."it will be a fair complet line of our most upscal products," mr. johansson explained. 
 previously, ford hadn't offer cash rebat on these f-seri trucks.last year, the f-seri truck were the best-sel line of vehicl in the u.s. 
 he said he also hope to develop an area the compani has just begun, home furnish such as wallpaper.sourc say balmain had sale last year of about 100 million french franc ($15 million) in it cloth lines, and, unlik mani fashion concerns, high fashion is one of it biggest revenu earners, after licens income. 
 the stock has risen steadili from the $6.50 price at which it was initi offer last thursday.new imag designs, assembl and market a line of comput imag system and software. 
 ---sharp agre to market in it store in japan a line of applianc made by sweden electrolux. 
 the suit seek to invalid patent held by autri industri inc. for transpar window in the sole of sneakers.canton, mass.-bas reebok said the suit was file in respons to claim by autri that certain reebok products, includ it new visibl er line of athlet footwear, infring on patent held by autry. 
 reebok also said it want to reassur it dealer that it will stand by the visibl products.nik inc., beaverton, ore., also offer a line of see-through shoes, call nike visibl air. 
 the weston unit, which employ about 200 worker at a plant near newark, n.j., has annual sale of about $12 million.ametek, a manufactur of industri products, said weston make a line of display gaug that complement the instrument line ametek alreadi suppli to the same aircraft builders. 
 gm said the decis to delay ad a second product shift at janesvill "reflect a recent downturn in the total medium-duti truck business."th janesvill plant is build a new line of gm medium-duti trucks, to be sold as the gmc topkick and the chevrolet kodiak. 
 after the end of the year, all of gm convent medium-duti truck will be built at the janesvill facility, the compani said.gm said product of it old line of convent medium-duti truck at the pontiac central facil in pontiac, mich., will be cut to one shift from two, begin sept. 16. 
 the two compani also left unansw the question of which comput design will prevail -- alway a touchi issu among proud engineers.mr. poduska told the analyst that the two line will be fulli compat by earli 1991. 
 industri heavyweight that previous ran upscal hotel and inn are move into the budget sector, say joseph doyle, a lodg industri analyst at smith barney harri upham & co.for example, holiday corp. launch it hampton inn line of budget motel in 1984, and marriott corp. start up the fairfield inn line in 1987. 
 for example, stafford blain design ltd. of minneapoli offer $14 white cotton shirt with render of renoir paint "two sister on a terrace" or gaugin "tahitian landscape."at the philadelphia convention, hourlong fashion show ran twice daili to help retail appreci the latest line of imprint cloth and graphic designs. 
 while temporari plant close have becom common dure this year of sluggish car sales, this shutdown is the first for the lorain, ohio, plant in sever years.it also the latest setback for the car line that start off 1989 win motor trend magazin "car of the year" award. 
 then in february, ford resort to divert more than 10,000 of the car to an amus park lot near the lorain factori until engin could find the caus of and elimin a mysteri rattl in some of the cars.to boost sale of the two models, ford was forc on aug. 1 to offer heavi $1,500 rebat on all but the supercharg version of the thunderbird and cougar lines. 
 in 1988, 45% of transamerica gross premium incom came from it specialti insur lines, with 20% from person and 35% from commerci insur business.mr. isom expect that specialti line will provid as much as 55% of premium incom in futur years, with smaller share from the other two areas.in 1983, none of the compani premium incom came from specialti lines. 
 toyota said total vehicl product for the year was 4,006,796 units, repres a 3.9% increas over the year before.ful model chang in the mark ii, chaser, cresta and hilux model were cite for the increas in unit sold, as were new model addit for toyota supra, vista, camry, corolla, sprinter, town ace and other exist lines. 
 deer & co. report a 21% rise in earn for it fiscal third quarter despit an oper loss in it lawn and grounds-car line. 
 deer stock fell 87.5 cents, to close at $60.125 in heavi trade on the new york stock exchange.karen ubelhart, an analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc., said wall street had been expect higher per-shar earn of around $1.40, and term the loss in the lawn and grounds-car line a surprise. 
 retail demand for industri equip remain modest higher than in 1988, deer said, but call it overal sale mix "less favor compar with last year."deer introduc a new line of farm equip last fall and increas price from 3% to 5%, but provid bank analyst jame peirc said that while price is "much improved, it is still not where the industri would like to be." 
 mazda aggress price strategi run counter to some other import brand that are minim their price rise to remain competit in the u.s. market.nissan motor co. alreadi restructur it entry-level sentra car line by elimin some model and make standard equip option on other 1990 versions. 
 "they'r also go to be search for the intang inher in a premium qualiti brand."mazda offici said they are studi the feasibl of ad a luxuri car sale divis in the u.s. similar to toyota lexus and nissan infin car lines. 
 averag share increas about 13%, to 19.3 million.del attribut the earn declin in part to price reduct on comput use the intel corp. 80286 microprocessor, a line that is reach maturity. 
 "we continu to look for way to improv our product by updat them, offer a more-modern look and introduc new products" said mr. kyle.for example, the compani has begun promot a new line of cake and pie in flavor that chang monthly.in addition, he said a line of honey-graham cooki call tasti bears, aim at children age six to 12, has been well receiv sinc it debut in may. 
 "we prefer to invest in softwar compani with $2 million to $5 million in revenu instead of start them from scratch," say andrew rachleff, a partner in merrill, pickard, anderson & eyre.th palo alto, calif., ventur firm recent led a $4 million financ to buy softwar line for a newli form company. 
 anacomp inc. said it xidex unit will manufactur a line of floppy-disk product for hewlett-packard co. 
 just five month after it introduction, general motor corp. is rais the price of it 1990 chevrolet lumina sedan, the first of a new line of four-door sedan gm is count on to boost it sag car-market share. 
 some answer are surpris simple.with market-research assist arrang by netaac, a paper compani introduc a line of snazzi paper sold with instruct to write a resume. 
 for a printing-equip maker, netaac came up with a two-prong solution.it is help the compani to simplifi it product to reduc product and servic costs, and to come up with a low-pric line to export to industri countries, mr. mclaughlin says. 
 automat data process inc. said fourth-quart earn rose 9% and predict a more than 10% increas in per-shar earn for the new fiscal year.th computer-servic compani attribut the earn growth to strength in it employer-servic and dealer-servic businesses, and said it expect both those line to have double-digit growth in the year end june 30. 
 he was general optimistic, despit acknowledg that the first half was "high disappointing."h said the rollout of the 2200 line of mainfram -- whose delay caus some of the recent problem -- "went, if anything, better than we expected." 
 after 18 month of ad new region markets, the compani has near complet the introduct of it top-shelf microwav entrees, design to remain fresh on grocery-stor shelv without freezing.it newer chicken by georg line is just get under way. 
 mr. marotta and ms. zain also have clone the amyloid protein gene and have transplant it into cell grown in a test tube.thi line of cell is now produc excess quantiti of beta-amyloid protein, also known as a4 peptide. 
 "the market is still veri short of stock," one dealer said."although privat client are stick to the sidelines, most institut are still on the lookout for a good, reason price line of stock." 
 mr. mcdonald maintain that prime $500-million-a-year comput servic busi generat enough cash to pay the interest.h said prime fast-grow computer design busi may get more r&d funding, and that the proprietari seri 50 minicomput line will be abl to cut costs. 
 while imit may be the sincerest form of flattery, anthoni maglica would appreci fewer kudos.mr. maglica, presid and owner of mag instrument inc., design a line of high-priced, high-qual flashlights, known as the mag-lit and mini maglite. 
 part of geo problem has been that it product offer are as muddl as a hockey team in the middl of a fli line change.al chevi dealer sell the line had the metro minicar, but they didn't begin receiv the restyl geo prizm, previous the chevrolet nova, until earlier this year. 
 however, par disclos in a file with the secur and exchang commiss that the fda inspect of the company, includ quad, continues.in it filing, par said sale and gross margin of quad inject line "may also be advers affected, although to a lesser extent." 
 mani custom seem to have been won over, and ibm unveil some product last week that consult said should confirm that view.som of the product were enhanc for ibm so-cal privat branch exchang that make the telephon switch mesh better with the siemen line. 
 lockhe has outpac the standard & poor aerospac index in the past decade, and appear certain to surviv the defens industri shake-out.it doe face some short-term negatives, such as this year wind down of the c-5b transport and p3 anti-submarin aircraft programs; complet of the f-117a stealth fighter line in 1990; and a high level of defer incom taxes. 
 despit previous flop within this niche, campbel soup co., kraft general food and nestl enterpris inc. all are test-market prepackaged, refriger fresh food that need onli be tote home and heat or light cooked.and nestl s.a. carnat co. alreadi sell a limit line of chill fare nationwid and say it may expand. 
 last year, the compani said it hope to introduc american shopper to it chill fare through king supermarket inc., a small chain of upscal new jersey grocer that it had just acquired.except to say that a come launch of new food line would be "significant," a spokeswoman last week wouldn't elabor on the compani plans. 
 such a complex system is difficult to match in the u.s., where distribut chain are long.indeed, jame h. moran, public-rel director for campbell, cite distribut problem as one reason whi the compani withdrew it fresh chef line of refriger sauces, soup and salad two year ago. 
 now, campbel is tri again.in philadelphia, it is test-market fresh kitchen, a new line of refriger sauces, entre and desserts. 
 culinova fresh entrees, launch in 1986 by philip morri cos. general food corp., hit similar distribut problems.last december, short after philip morri bought kraft inc., the struggl line was scrapped. 
 last december, short after philip morri bought kraft inc., the struggl line was scrapped.but kraft general foods, the offspr of philip morri acquisition, is press ahead with the chilleri line of entrees, salads, pasta and dessert origin develop by kraft. 
 nestle, the swiss giant, has jump into the u.s. chilled-food market on two fronts.it nestl enterpris subsidiary, base in solon, ohio, is test-market a line of upscal entre and salad call freshnes. 
 food-industri expert say that those type of product are less temperature-sensit than fanci entrees.carn is look at broaden it refrigerated-food line, say richard curd, a compani spokesman, although he too declin to elaborate. 
 it a sport that now occupi a larg part of his life.until recent a st. louis-bas editor at a success outdoor magazine, mr. kruger move to the ozark to focus on flyfish for bass -- to write about it, to guid float-trip and to develop a line of lures. 
 but they are also tri to soft-ped the price increas -- by scatter them all over the window sticker, end discount on option and put last year middle-of-the-lineup name on this year base model.consid the strategi general motor corp. is use on the soon-to-be-introduc 1990 version of it high-volum chevrolet corsica line. 
 that averag to about $750 a vehicle, chrysler offici say.whil gm price increas may not look as steep as it two domest rivals, that larg becaus ford and chrysler are make air bag standard equip on more of their car lines. 
 ford is rais the price of it bronco ii sport util vehicl $607, or 4.3%, to $14,718, even though sale of the vehicl have fallen about 13% this year and the latest model is due to be replac next spring by an all-new product.chrysler, meanwhile, is look to earn more on it lebaron line of coup by load more equip -- includ a new v-6 engin -- into a "premium" version of the car. 
 oldsmobil silhouette, which is virtual ident to the pontiac, will start at $17,195.bi comparison, much of chrysler minivan line is less expensive. 
 prime comput inc., natick, mass., unveil two comput in it new exl 1200 line base on multiprocessor comput made by sequent comput system inc., beaverton, ore. 
 the commerc depart announc last month that it was lift export curb on a wide class of desktop computers.but the order carri out that decis add not onli laptop but other, more power version of intern busi machin corp. ps/2 line than the origin announc covered. 
 nissan motor co. is consolid it sentra budget car line for 1990 by elimin some model and make higher-pr version of other avail onli as special option packages. 
 "the growth is less rapid than expected," an intel spokeswoman said.also contribut to the outlook, she said, were start-up cost associ with a line of comput that intel plan to start ship in the current quarter and cost of prepar for mass shipment of the compani new 80486 chip in the fourth quarter. 
 as part of the restructuring, interlak also said it intend to focus on it core businesses, includ powder metals, aerospac components, and storag and handl products.it plan to divest itself of unrel lines, but it didn't specifi what they are. 
 royc laboratories, likewis isn't profitable.th compani says, however, that it is await approv from the fda to manufactur and sell 12 generic prescript drug and it intend to expand it line of over-the-count drug product to increas revenue. 
 donnkenni inc. was bet lightn would strike again when it put the name of dian von furstenberg, the jet-set socialit who had a hot design label in the 1970s, on a line of dress earlier this year. 
 the lawsuit say the name ivana is wide associ with mrs. trump busi dealings, and that pavion ltd. ivana lipstick is "an attempt to capit on {mrs.} trump celebr status."th lawsuit, which seek damag of at least $10 million, also say that mrs. trump is use the name for her own line of perfume. 
 a decad after it betamax home-video format lost out to rival vhs, soni corp. of america, a unit of the japanes consumer-electron giant, is tri to forc it way back into the video limelight with it 8mm format, launch four year ago.soni hope to popular "video 8" through the concept of "person video" -- video wherev you go -- as exemplifi by it video walkman line: tini battery-oper color mini-tv with built-in videocassett recorders. 
 mr. tarlow declin to comment, but a revlon spokesman indic that the agenc were drop "for classic client-ag reasons."th onli agenc to surviv yesterday cut are ketchum advertising, new york, which is work on a major product introduct for a new line of hair-car products; and peter roger associates, which handl the advertis for scaasi, a perfume. 
 young & rubicam continu as agenc of record for network and print media buying.hil holliday handl advertis for revlon charli and troubl fragrances, clean & clear hair care line and nutrasom hair care treatment. 
 analyst say this isn't impossible, given their own project that black & decker earn could soar to $5 to $6 a share over the same period.black & decker purchas of general electr small applianc line in 1985 "was more riski than emhart," mr. archibald declares. 
 hartmarx agre june 27 to sell countri miss, base in easton, pa., to lb for about $62 million, the file says.countri miss, which make and retail moder price sportswear, is on the block becaus it doesn't fit into hartmarx focus on upscale, higher-qu cloth lines. 
 the compani was devast in the earli 1980s, when virtual all of it busi were rock by a deep recession.onc an industri scaveng that grew through acquisit and turnaround of mature, out-of-favor manufacturers, it began shed virtual all it line and take huge write-off in recent years. 
 taco bell of irvine, calif., anoth major new client of foot cone san francisco, had previous been at omnicom group tracy-lock agenc in los angeles.a strong creativ reput certain help foot cone and other west coast agenc like hal riney, whose nation account includ general motor new saturn line. 
 the highest-pr car, the 911 carrera 4 cabriolet convertible, will remain at $77,800.the ad featur includ driver-sid and passenger-sid air bag on all of the compani car lines; not all 1989 model had air bags. 
 "i think the govern want to use market forces, rather than regulations, to make the compani achiev economi of scale," say mr. pinon.govern free-trad hope that produc will ceas product of some line that could more effect be imported, and turn out more of the model they make best. 
 reebok intern ltd. said it reach an agreement in principl to buy the boston whaler unit of cml group inc. for about $42 million, signal a signific broaden of reebok product base.reebok has made sever acquisit in recent year to expand it athlet footwear and sportswear lines. 
 nonetheless, hewlett-packard is a huge compani with much greater resourc than sun and mips.it domin the risc market with it line of high-end workstations, and is the lead maker of all kind of workstat with it recent acquisit of apollo computer. 
 in the past, risc/unix machin have been veri expensive, and limit most to scientif and engin applications.but sun microsystem has led a movement to offer less expens workstat that are begin to compet with ibm ps/2 line and with appl comput macintosh. 
 hispan tracking: telemundo group and univis holdings, as expected, sign a contract with a.c. nielsen for the develop of a nation hispan tv rate servic use peopl meters.new accounts: crystal brand jewelri group, new york, award it monet, trifari and marvella line to margeot fertitta & weiss, new york. 
 capit spend will total about $34 million in the current fiscal year as the compani continu to upgrad plants.in fiscal 1989, capit outlay total $51 million, with $11 million go to sharpli expand product of oat bran at it cedar rapids, iowa, plant, and anoth sizabl amount to launch a line of microwav chili and other entre in single-serv packs. 
 ametek inc. said it complet the acquisit of general electr co. instrument-product unit in exchang for $110 million and the transfer of an ametek plastic plant to ge.ametek, a paoli, pa., industri manufacturer, said the acquisit would strong complement it line of jet-aircraft instruments. 
 that rate was 98%, compar with 39% last year, the compani said.th rail-intermod line, which consist of piggyback trailers, domest contain and chassis, repres about 60% of the compani business. 
 but the sale increas came off relat weak 1988 result and indic a general lacklust retail environ like to continu for the rest of 1989, analyst said.in general, depart and specialti store fare better, becaus of some shift away from bigger ticket purchas such as automobil to apparel lines. 
 at dallas-bas j.c. penney co., which has increas it depend on fashion merchandise, same-stor sale rose 9.7% against a 2.5% decreas a year ago.william r. howell, chairman, said the strongest gain result from children merchandise, but note that all apparel line had substanti increases. 
 at minneapolis-bas dayton hudson corp., same-stor sale rose 6.9% for juli and 5.9% for the 26 weeks."th month sale growth was led by soft lines," said kenneth a. macke, chairman and chief execut officer. 
 but with the luxuri market soft and consum confid about make car purchas waning, that may not be enough to establish a strong presence.th line also face the challeng of forg an ident -- one distinct not onli from lexus rival but also from toyota itself. 
 and by borrow exterior and dashboard-styl cue from mercedes-benz, say some experts, lexus risk get a "copycat" label instead of a distinct identity.also, while lexus price compar favor with those of european cars, they don't look particular attract alongsid the price of ford lincoln line and general motor corp. cadillac division. 
 but ibm post an earn gain of 39%; the rise was just 8% after adjust the year-earli result for a restructur charg and a gain on a sale.ibm had it first signific revenu gain in the u.s. in years, and got a strong perform from it as/400 minicomput line -- which wasn't yet introduc a year earlier. 
 in his letter, mr. jacob said that, like amway, he would sell avon giorgio bever hill inc. and parfum stern inc. units, as well as other oper that avon may be treat as discontinued.in recent month the new york-bas compani has been dispos of ancillari busi to concentr on it line of household good and cosmetics, which are distribut primarili through a direct-sal force. 
 so, a number of vintners, larg and small, are show sign of battl fatigue.no. 2-rank heublein inc., a unit of grand metropolitan plc, is regist steep declin in it almaden and inglenook lines. 
 the sudden recognit work magic (though it came as someth of a shock to the natives, "who do these new yorker think they are, come out here and beat us at our own game?"), and the veri first vintag sold out quickly.ther wasn't much of it, however, and the vineyard need cash flow, so bruno came up with the idea of a line of inexpens wines, proprietor reserv red and white, that were first offer at $2.99 a bottle. 
 sale leap to 1.5 million case by 1987, with proprietor reserv chardonnay lead the pack.in fact, the success of the proprietor reserv line advers affect sale of glen ellen estat wines, barrel-ag chardonnay, sauvignon blanc, and cabernet sauvignon that were sold most to restaurants. 
 meanwhile, glen ellen proprietor reserv sale continu to soar.th line has now expand to includ a select dri white, sauvignon blanc, merlot and white zinfandel. 
 fetzer success is larg due to the enorm popular of it moder price varietals, sundial chardonnay and valley oak fume blanc, which sell for about $7.50 and $6 respectively.fetz make a full line of variet wines, all excel value, especi the barrel select zinfandel and reserv pinot noir. 
 data general corp. introduc a line of person comput and workstat compat with intern busi machin corp. pc-at computers. 
 the new model rang from a compact desktop machin to a power network server and are price from $2,995 to $8,495.data general also introduc softwar that let pc user communic with it larger minicomput line. 
 among other things, the compani had been slow in integr the market of both fireston and bridgeston brand tires.for instance, bridgeston tire onli recent were ad to fireston line at fireston chain of mastercar automot repair stores. 
 bmw sale drop 15.6%, while volkswagen ag sale fell 11.7%.however, volkswagen audi line boost sale 61.5% in juli to 2,653 vehicles. 
 the rebound came in the wake of the nation highway traffic safeti administr announc in mid-juli that it had found no mechan defect in audi 5000 model that could have caus the car to sudden acceler out of control.publ about sudden acceler in that now-discontinu model line had stain audi imag and help to depress sale for near three years. 
 so the japan of the 21st centuri may be expect to assum the role of a matur creditor country, import more than it is exporting, and earn more from it foreign asset hold than it is invest abroad to add to them.finally, the deep-seat mercantilist orient of the japanes economi will probabl be buffet by two strong forc in the intern trade arena: formal and inform protection in the u.s. and european market as well as the displac of japanes consum durabl product by compet line from south korea, taiwan, singapor and hong kong. 
 however, makita fail to convinc the judg that it so-cal trade dress is distinct enough.th itc call echo it 1987 decis uphold an administr law judg rule to dismiss samsonit corp. complaint that four taiwanes manufactur illeg copi one of the colorado firm popular luggag lines. 
 it is limit onli by the creativ of the peopl who'll relaunch it."mr. carosi insist hasbro has made some advanc in the area of line extensions. 
 after a swig, mr. carosi says, the doll burps.and then there the design cabbag patch line that featur doll dress in trendi fashions. 
 he adds, however, that video air is start to tri tie in advertis with movies.for "rain man," whose video releas will includ a nation ad for buick, video air is "tri to get local buick dealer to do a tag at the end of the ad, saying, come see our line of buick at your local dealer,'" mr. mathi says. 
 but wertheim mr. gell is doubtful."generally, line extens just prolong the agoni by increas the relianc on those products, which don't grow as fast as their precursors," he says. 
 notably, befor the fda procedur were revis by the waxman-hatch act of 1984, the agenc made the generic maker go through a batteri of addit chemic and other test to prove their drug effect and safety, not just bioequivalence.but congress want to creat more price competit in mani pharmaceut lines, and therefor expedit the fda treatment of generic drug applications. 
 the compani has invest more than $4 million in hdtv product gear, say barri rebo, president.with 40 employe and about $3.5 million in annual revenue, rebo produc hdtv program and is develop a line of specialti equip for hdtv production. 
 some firms, like horchow mail order inc. in dalla and sharper imag co. in san francisco, offer onli limit guarante on merchandis -- a bold departur from a tradit among catalog compani of lure custom away from retail with lifetim warranties.som firms, like spiegel inc. of oak brook, ill., and sears, roebuck & co., chicago, discontinu line with higher return rates. 
 viag expans also has focus on aluminum operations, in it vereinigt aluminium werk ag. viag has increas smelt capac through the purchas of a 20% stake in a canadian smelter that is be built.th compani also is effect ad a line, refractori product and industri ceramics, by boost it stake in didier-werk ag to 49% from 27%. 
 octel communic corp., milpitas, calif., said fiscal fourth-quart earn rose 57%, and announc plan to sell 1.5 million common shares.octel, cite "good result sell our voice-process line to larg corpor customers," said profit for the quarter, end june 30, was $3.3 million, or 21 cent a share, compar with $2.1 million, or 15 cent a share, a year earlier. 
 "peopl will turn to the next question: what kind of real momentum will be creat by the combin of these businesses?" ask david maccallum, a new york pharmaceut analyst for san francisco broker hambrecht & quist inc."i don't think there anyth those two organ will do that will creat signific momentum for the top (sales) line." 
 mr. gumucio said cray is encount discount price by ibm, particular in bid for univers contracts.convex is be aggress in battl for departmental-s machines, at the low end of cray line. 
 but now, it white-collar rank have balloon to 31,000.much of this was the by-product of chrysler 1987 acquisit of american motor corp. and it hot-sel jeep line. 
 just yesterday, chrysler doubl the rebat on those omni and horizon subcompact to $1,500 -- a whop 23% discount.such discount put more pressur on it minivan and jeep to generat profit, but those line are about to be bombard by new competitors. 
 three year ago, that all changed.doravill was select to build a new line of midsiz coupes, code-nam "gm-10" and cost $5 billion to develop. 
 the firm problem realli began in the mid-1980s, when it decid against seek a share of the new generat of fighter envis by the navi in order to concentr it technic and financi resourc on an overrid goal: win the multibillion-dollar contract to build a replac for the bulbous-nos a-6 intruder, the navi onli long-range, all-weath bomber.but the compani isn't among the firm pick for that contract, leav it without a new line of warplan when product of it battle-test but age model is phase out. 
 gm is mere suffer -- and hunt for a cure.it is ad four-door sedan to the gm-10 line.it is convert two auto plant to truck production, close a car plant in framingham, mass., this summer, and plan to squeez product of one of it large-car line into two assembl plant instead of three. 
 but it must also serv exist buyer of it older computers, which provid the bulk of sales."th declin of data general exist proprietari product continu to overshadow the transit to the new unix-bas line," said barri f. willman, an analyst with sanford c. bernstein & co. 
 boe co. second-quart net incom jump 20% on stronger revenue, but the world lead aircraft maker stress that it continu "to face signific challeng and risks" in both it commerci and militari lines. 
 "you still have to convinc homeown that this (dymetrol) perform better than springs," mr. bost says.industri expert also say that sears, which of late has been stress it "everyday low prices," may be hinder in it abil to sell it line, which it has posit as more fashion and more expens than the typic furnitur it sells. 
 "sear has the clout and the credibl when it come to furniture," say jerri epperson, a secur analyst at wheat first securities.sear and du pont introduc the last imag furnitur line at the american craft museum here in a model live room similar to the one that will be set up this fall in 450 of sear larger stores. 
 