"she has a lot of inform in her head about the acquir compani and there may be inform there that may be use to supermarket general in their defense.i think she walk a veri thin line." 
 one reason optima could reshap the credit-card busi is that american express is the first high-profil card issuer with nation market muscl to introduc a low-rat card.beyond that, it foray into revolv credit -- in which the card holder must make onli a minim payment each month -- further blur the once-well-defin line between bank and other financial-servic companies. 
 the pentagon has strenuous resist move to upgrad the status of the unit that deal with "low intens conflict."memb of the joint chief argu that congress was tri to creat a "fifth service" that would cut across tradit line of militari authority. 
 a japanes embassi spokesman in washington said: "the supercomput issu is a matter between two governments.thi (the fujitsu proposal) is a matter between two companies, and a line should be drawn between the two." 
 add ray ablondi, a market research director at ford motor co.: "we don't recogn someth call a middl class.w work across demographic, psycho-graph and life-styl lines. 
 in the past, peopl shop decis were restrict part by their limit familiar with what was available.but mass communic has sinc spread tast and want across social and econom lines. 
 but she refus to buy import new zealand strawberri at $5 or $6 a box."that where i draw the line," she says. 
 today, it is more vital than ever.in 1983, the act was entrench in the new constitution, which establish a tricamer parliament along racial lines, with separ chamber for whites, color and asian but none for blacks. 
 but otherwise, he says, "i'm not sure we should regulate" mani off-exchang transactions.exchang say the line should be firm. 
 in some regards, he was almost a cliche: an ambiti young man who rose too far too fast and wound up in the worst sort of trouble.h say he cross the line into crimin without even realiz it. 
 but in france, which has long consid televis a public servic and a cultur force, discov that it also a busi has come as a jolt.and although mani busi execut laud the recent rehabilit of free enterpris and profit, mani frenchmen clear draw the line at television. 
 guthri birkhead, dean of syracus univers maxwel school of citizenship and public affairs, note that in recent years, busi have "raided" his school and recruit around 10% of each graduat class."but it not that disturbing," he says, "becaus the line between the public and privat sector is blurring. 
 we think you can be serv the public good at the moodi or the goldman sachs too."a blurri line doesn't help the schools, which from the begin have struggl to separ themselv from the more establish law school and busi schools. 
 but analyst say mani bank might be forc to deal with such reduct in equiti by sell asset and issu stock to buttress their sharehold equity.mr. levi think a sharper line will be drawn in the futur between well-capit bank that can "gracefully" buttress reserv and those "who will be realli hurt." 
 on balance, say mr. schoenwald, "i feel that it a good compani worth holding."th difficulti of draw a line can be seen in other funds. 
 "but currenc exchang rate can't be neglected, and now they have to be given new emphasis."mr. poehl is walk a fine line. 
 bernarda alba is a single-mind matriarch who embodi the combin author of the church, the famili and society.sh is tyrann enough without underscor her cruelty, which is what ms. jackson does, bark out command in a hard-edged, loud voic that carri the play over the line from tragedi to melodrama. 
 "are we go to have peopl drink crisco?" ask joseph kozloff, an analyst for painewebb inc.fat substitutes, meanwhile, further blur the line between food and medicine, ad to a develop that research call "medic foods." 
 an industri safeti committe was formed, and contract of actor and director have been chang to includ safeti provisions."th incid will serv to temper the zeal of film maker (when they) walk that fine line between the art of illus and creat reality," say terri young, director of risk manag at mgm/ua entertain co. 
 onli two thing have to "go wrong at the same time and there are go to be problems" at a bank, he added.som banker conced a compromis on capit adequaci requir will have to be work out as secur regul decid where to draw the line between bank and secur businesses. 
 on one end is the monday night poker game; on the other end is the larg public servic group.w don't know where the suprem court will draw the line." 
 those who are oppos to rape are induc to becom natur hostil toward sex, and those who like sex are inclin to becom a bit more kind dispos toward rape.th entir case against coerciv sex rest on deni ms. dworkin equation, and insist on the line of demarc between voluntari and involuntari intercourse. 
 the feder reserv board decis to give three major bank hold compani limit author to deal in secur through subsidiari further blur the legal line separ commerci and invest banking. 
 the fed decis to give three big bank limit author to deal in secur through subsidiari further blur the legal line between commerci and invest banking. 
 "the firm has not given us formal notice, but we have it on suffici reliabl sourc that they are do this," said jay biggins, execut director of the citi offic for econom development.mr. biggin said the citi went as far as it could to inspir penney to stay but added, "the citi draw a line beyond which it can't go, in order to remain fair to other companies." 
 cboe and philadelphia exchang offici couldn't be reached.leo melamed, special counsel to the chicago mercantil exchange, which is expect to reap increas stock-index and foreign currenc futur busi from the japanese, said, "it appear they'r draw the line between retail and institut business." 
 an announc is expect today.th new power for banker trust new york corp., citicorp and j.p. morgan & co. further blur the legal line separ commerci and invest banking. 
 the sec reviv activ in the bank realm doesn't sit well with the american banker association, either.in light of the blur line between the bank and secur industries, the sec requir all commerci bank that solicit brokerag busi to regist as broker-dealers. 
 befor then, he says, he would smoke in front of his boss, a former smoker, in "real social" situations.but he drew the line when it came to work or travel. 
 thus, some famili are probabl buy take-out food from groceri store -- such as barbecu chicken -- but aren't classifi it as such.th line between groceri and take-out food may have becom blurred. 
 in a letter to worker befor a schedul vote in februari on join the union, the presid of bell atlant bell atlanticom said: "we do not want this union in our company!th union can caus plenti of troubl . . . ." a month later, the union president, morton bahr, told bell atlant chairman, thoma e. bolger, "the manag activ has cross the line of decency, and that is be charitable." 
 mr. allen, who is black, is consid a conservative.design as an independent, fact-find agency, the commiss has been sharpli divid along ideolog line in recent years. 
 "for the legal profession, the breakup of at&t has been like receiv an unsolicit annuity," say kenneth robinson, a commerc depart telecommun official.say david sather, counsel for u s west inc., a region phone company: "i don't mind put their (lawyers') kid through school, but i draw the line at their grandchildren." 
 republican donald haider also ran.mr. washington won the democrat parti primari in februari in a vote that was divid larg along racial line and, in the general election, face three white opponents. 
 if insid peopl are not competitive, how can your organ be competit in the marketplace?consult who work across industri line will confirm that the fundament in everi industri are almost identical. 
 although mr. jefferi wasn't an underwrit of the fireman fund issue, his case highlight an area that affect a wide rang of larg and small investors.it is an area where the line between legal and illeg is unusu thin. 
 mani diploma-mil custom know exact what they are getting, but dian ravitch, a professor of histori and educ at teacher colleg at columbia university, believ that other may not.a the number of night school and correspond class has risen, she says, the line between real and bogus school has becom "blurrier." 
 amid all her parent responsibilities, she couldn't fit in 40 hour of work a week."i couldn't draw a definit line -- i'd drop everyth for my children," recal mrs. schuldt, who has return to work at the factory, part-time. 
 after sign a multibillion-dollar borrowing, mexican financ minist gustavo petricioli has to tread a care line between the angri rhetor of disgruntl major debtor like brazil and the calm word his foreign lender now expect from mexico. 
 and, of course, that true.in a marxist societi gear up for war, there are no clear line separ officials, soldier and civilians. 
 although they are impress energetic, one somehow feel that their painter virtuos run away with them a bit.perhap this is becaus the way they tri to bridg the line between abstract and figur doesn't seem to be quit resolved. 
 "on the whole, i would as soon not have done it."som draw the line at far more mundan requests. 
 an agent call "jack" had forc a palestinian to call himself a poodle, crawl on all four and bark, an investig found, while the other agent had slap an arrest arab journalist and bound his hand to a pipe "a number of times," though never for more than an hour.becaus the shin bet secreci extend even to it code of behavior and disciplinari record, it is unclear where the agenc draw the line. 
 u.s. diplomat have back off from the controversy, and that disappoint u.s. farmers."if we could get the japanes to cross that white line," say j. stephen gabbert, execut vice presid of the rice miller association, "it might restructur the polit system and break a psycholog barrier to import goods." 
 "we do promot positivism," mr. decherd said in a speech last year.th polici sometim mean the news walk a fine line on objectivity. 
 it doe depriv the awsj of 4,600 copi worth of sale and advertising, as it is intend to do.th editori state that the awsj "has alreadi publish a seri of letter from officials," but "self-respect editor must somewher draw a line." 
 "for all the talk about gray areas, my client can sens what all right and what isn't," he says."they don't call me and say: where the line, so i can stay just bare on the safe side of it.'" 
 but the pacman defense, to be effective, need some market momentum to get bendix into play, push up it stock price so it would realiz the market was take the martin marietta attack seriously.so just befor martin marietta bid was unveiled, mr. siegel call mr. boeski and leak the top secret plan, fulli awar that he had just cross the line of illegality. 
 the lawyer say they hold out hope of treatment and legal redress to thousand of worker whose asbesto exposur has long been ignor by employers, govern agenc and unions.but as the attorney cross the line between law and medicine, their tactic are generat controversi as well as lawsuits. 
 even treasuri secretari jame baker has admit public that item such as the medicar propos come under the rubric of tax increases.pressed, mr. miller conced that the line between tax and user charg is a bit fuzzy. 
 the paper has alreadi publish a seri of letter from officials, but in the end editor bear some respons for the accuraci and fair of even letter to the editor.singapor offici seem to be use their new press law to claim unlimit access for whatev they choos to allege, and self-respect editor must somewher draw a line. 
 but it clear that tension between washington and citicorp are grow rapidly."ther a fine line between be tough and be a spoiler," one u.s. offici said. 
 presid reagan biographer, edmund morris, may be about to cross the line between write histori and make it. 
 meanwhile, corpor are pare legal budget and forc outsid law firm to bid competit for their business.law firm walk a fine line in devis market that bring in new busi without offend conserv partner or old-lin client who valu discretion. 
 one solut be consid is a big across-the-board reduct in the servic that the health-insur fund pay for.oth divid along polit lines. 
 by race and pound the first movement of the sonata no. 32 (mark maestoso-allegro con brio ed appassionato) he produc not heroism, but a tantrum.mr. barenboim perform also rais the question: when doe true interpret cross the line into mere caprice? 
 "how far can the administr reach when it observ conduct troublesom to everyone, but which did not interfer with the educ process?wher do you draw the line?" 
 magazin are in for more rivalri from mail-ord catalog as the line between them blurs. 
 bent on return it struggl steel unit to profitability, usx demand steep wage and benefit cut and, more important, the right to assign job and reorgan work crew without union interfer -- the same issu that prompt an industrywid strike in 1959.long embitt by the compani diversif into oil, the union drew a line against further sacrifice. 
 he was such a key figur at the bank," say david poutney, a bank analyst at barclay de zoet wedd, a secur unit of barclay bank plc.mr. seelig, refer to as "roger the art dodger" by rival dure his 15 year at morgan grenfell, "perfect straddl the fine line between be faintheart and cut too mani corners," say a corpor financ director at a rival merchant bank. 
 the line between tacki and urban is call broadway here, and it run right through the middl of town. 
 "we have made everi effort possibl to improv distribution."yet the matsushita-g impass indic that some japanes manufactur may now have decid to draw the line. 
 he was not fulli in control until october, when he flew back from an imf meet in belgrad to institut tight money.august 1979 stand as a bright line separ the era of inflat from the era of disinflation. 
 "everi year we go to the toy fair, and we come back saying, it not get ani better.'"for example, although hasbro, the biggest toy maker, also market board game and other "gender-neutral" items, it organ it biggest seller strict along sex-rol lines. 
 kid age four to nine are "fashion-conscious" as well as gender-conscious, she says.among the except to the gender line are construct product like lego system inc. lego or habermaa t.c. timber, which has a packag show a girl in a frilli dress survey a toy construct site. 
 "we don't mind rais fee if there is valu added, but i don't see it in the new audit proposals."mr. sullivan recogn that the board "must tread a fine line between the urg of congress and the concern of business." 
 "to even comment on this is riski for a presidenti candidate," say david keene, an advis to mr. dole."you have to walk a fine line. 
 it was be distribut by the conserv caucus, which for sever year has been campaign to forc chevron to pull out of it partnership with sociedad nacion de combustivei de angola (sonangol), a state oil compani under the control of angola marxist mpla government.th campaign has cut across ideolog and polit lines. 
 it great is that it laid the foundat for a system in which futur generat could carri out their own reform and solv their own problems.today, watch south korea struggl to establish the most minim republican institut -- or watch franc limp along with two men in charg becaus nobodi ever drew the line between the execut and legisl branch -- we can onli marvel at our forefath accomplishments. 
 state attempt to shield their corpor from hostil bid have "present serious impedi to the free and effici operation" of the stock markets, mr. ruder said."draw the line between appropri state regul of intern corpor affair and improp state regul of nation tender offer is not easy," he added, "but the task is unavoidable." 
 general it tell more about the speaker than about the topic under discussion.yet to draw the line, as mr. carter does, between speech accept to men as a class as against women as a class convey a sexist attitud more objectionable, perhaps, than be foulmouthed. 
 but humanitarian assistance, tradit the domain of civilians, is gear more toward provid food, cloth or medic servic to individuals.in vietnam, the line between the militari and civilian agenc becam blurred, with intellig operators, for example, often use posit in the agenc for intern development, or aid, as "cover." 
 but the most effect check on desktop comput gurus, expert say, is a computer-liter manager.such boss can recogn the often murki distinct between product and play on a computer, and can draw the line clear so their worker won't get led astray. 
 bare one in 11 would absolut refuse.th students, though, do draw the line. 
 april mark the first month when overal industri asset declin sinc decemb 1983.bb&k mr. biehl conced that the line divid diversa fund client and the newslett subscrib is alreadi fuzzy. 
 but robert giordano, an economist at goldman, sach & co., express concern that polit consider might lead mr. greenspan, a republican, to toler a slight pickup in inflat for the sake of better econom growth."volck drew a line at 4% inflation," mr. giordano asserted. 
 nato made a virtu out of a necessity.th sudden outbreak of the six-day war in the near east rais the stake by remind the world of the thin line between peac and war. 
 ms. thernstrom question the wisdom of such results: "are minor sometim better off with fewer seat but more diffus influenc -- a smaller number of black in office, but a greater number of repres who owe their elect to black constituents?"th reshap of a substanti number of polit district along racial line has gone virtual unnot by congress and the media. 
 "the sandinista interpret this as an unwilling of the soviet to assume" respons to protect the regime, he says.indeed, the soviet have care avoid cross other line drawn by the u.s. administration. 
 in czechoslovakia, more than in ani other countri of the soviet sphere, the leadership has had a difficult time.it is struggl to walk a credibl line between the retrench it was brought in to enforc two decad ago and mr. gorbachev drive to reviv social with dose of the free market and freedom of thought. 
 at the hear yesterday, judg kennedi said, "it seem to me that most americans, most lawyers, most judg believ liberti includ protect of a valu we know as privacy.""ther is a zone of liberty," he added, ". . . where a line is drawn where the individu can tell the government, beyond this line, you may not go.'th great question is where to draw that line." 
 judg anthoni kennedi conclud his testimoni for his suprem court nomination, walk a fine line between liber and conserv senat concern about where his legal view fit on the polit spectrum. 
 and, at a time of shrink medic income, the exploit of medic fashion offer a rich opportun for financi gain.th line are drawn. 
 but the new democrat parti itself place second in a gallup poll, be favor by 34% of decid voters, compar with 35% for the liber and 29% for the conservatives.so mr. broadbent walk a fine line. 
 mr. roh nevertheless schedul his seoul ralli to coincid with the anniversary.hi advis say his speech will draw the clearest line yet between himself and the high unpopular presid chun. 
 "the fed is caught between deflationari signal and inflationari signal coexist at the same time.they'v got to walk a veri fine line." 
 the new rules, which were put into effect two week ago without ani public announcement, are suppos to clarifi what that licens allows.invest advis said the regul will forc them to continu tread a fine line between offer advic and actual sell securities. 
 and when it is ready, we will deploy it."if all of this seem like a delic line to walk, well, appar sometim even the presid slips. 
 "with congress not have done anyth meaning on the budget deficit, the process of control the economi fall on the shoulder of the fed," mr. kahan said."th fed is go to have to walk a thin line between be too tight and caus us to fall direct into recession, and be over stimul and therefor lead to an inflationari bout." 
 he appeal to the tax court.now special judg dinan has drawn a line that may surpris some tax experts: hendrickson was inexperienc and own minor share in onli three wells, so he was unabl to play an activ role in manag and oper or to influenc oper decisions. 
 such foggi rhetor reflect a 30-year-long weaken of the democrat and republican parties.they have fewer and fewer strong adher divid by clear line of tradit left-right ideology. 
 and carrier may have to mention that return portion of most non-refund ticket can't be use when travel miss depart flights."we'r essenti draw a specif line and saying, step across it and we'll sue you,'" say one task-forc member. 
 back home, he has plenti of his own problems, from a sur bureaucraci to sikh terrorist to restless gurkha to troubl border with pakistan and china.h walk a fine line in deal with the separatist movement in india own tamil state. 
 the move would have been organ by manag and carri out by worker with job classif allow them to haul equipment.but now, the skilled-trad worker were not onli organ the move but also were will to cross job line and help. 
 they debat ethic in the easy, wisecrack languag of daniel petri jr. deft script while they drive to a cajun restaur in remi convertible.h get her drunk, and they eat and danc and continu wrangl about where to put the fine line between perk and graft. 
 and the ramif will go far beyond intern economics.ther is a fine line between trade and polit in the persian gulf nations. 
 the best way to experi the "sculptur project" is with a good pair of walk shoes, plenti of time, and a copi of the moder priced, bilingu guid sold by the westphalian landesmuseum (conveni situat just across from the cathedral, where the treasur hunt starts).in munster, too, the line between art and non-art is often less than clear. 
 the word "democratic" and "liberal" have becom synonym -- the health of liber is now measur by the success of the democrat parti in the latest presidenti election.th line between polici analyst and polit tactician has becom similar blurred. 
 the fed found father had just that kind of structur in mind almost 75 year ago.th line are blurring; the prioriti changing. 
 "the flood" skill combin hypermodern graphic and comput projections, live actor and 3-d animation.yet all of the "alive" show tread the fine line between experiment and excess. 
 note of white hous meet indic presid reagan share adm. poindext penchant for turn words.th naval offic testifi that even col. north had difficulti "draw the fine line that the presid was drawing" in defend a plan that encompass sell weapon to a nation that had support terrorist hold american hostag in lebanon. 
 but it wasn't clear whether this would forc a tighten of controls.th court stop short of say where the agenc should draw the line on safety. 
 for this reason, mr. smith make sure the paper-product manag and worker don't feel inferior to their counterpart at the more glamor market divisions."it a fine, fine line you'v got to walk," say mr. smith, a down-to-earth execut who tour plant in blue jean and run shoes. 
 obviously, the lack of turnov in hous seat benefit incumb of both parties.but just as obviously, it entrench the ideolog balanc that prevail when the line were drawn and the incumbent-protect legisl was passed. 
 his approach was at time veri broad -- say there was onli a "semantic" differ between militari and non-leth "humanitarian" aid for the contra -- and at time veri narrow -- argu a distinct between "covert actions" and clandestin "special activities."in a tell exchange, adm. poindext acknowledg that even col. north had difficulti "draw the fine line that the presid was drawing" in defend the earli iran initi and the plan to sell weapon to a nation that support terrorists. 
 even some state regul say the rule can go too far."it a fine line between consum protect and overprotection," say ann mari brady, wisconsin deputi secur commissioner. 
 govern and privat analyst alik don't think the iranian are like to mount a frontal attack, becaus that would invit large-scal retaliation."they'l have to draw a line between not want to spread the war and do something," say ruhollah ramazani, an iranian-born scholar at the univers of virginia. 
 still, sex and violenc outsel economics.takao saito, who draw the 18-year-old "golgo 13" series, notic a change: "until recently, there was a line between manga that had sex and those that didn't.that line has been blurred." 
 these days, beij emphas the cooper in an effort to woo taiwan, to which the kuomintang fled after be defeat by the communists.chines leaders, meanwhile, have sought to draw the line on harsh anti-japanes rhetoric. 
 ani concentr of power is oppressive; the concentr of econom power is frightening.let us hope that congress will have the gut or the wisdom to draw a line against the unbridl econom concentr that is impli in the treasuri no-longer-secret plan. 
 "there are all kind of guidelin this violates," say retir col. john miller, editor of the naval institut proceed magazine."th line was cross sometim before. 
 so far, his energi and aggress stanc have surpris critic and earn favor review at home.virginia voter are much on sen. tribl mind; up for reelect next year, he is walk a line between loyalti to the presid and the new independ he need to survive. 
 but the account profess should still be care of where it management-consult busi is headed.when it move over the line of give advic to make the actual busi deal and direct busi strategi for audit clients, it may encount the ire of congression watchdogs. 
 the reappoint of the 57-year-old bundesbank chief was wide expected, despit some critic of his expans monetari polici at home.th bundesbank has been walk a narrow line between intern demand for more west german econom growth and domest fear of rekindl inflation. 
 justic william brennan, join by justic thurgood marshall, sandra o'connor and harri blackmun, said the question of whether religi group could hire onli member of their own faith remain open when church-run, for-profit busi are involved.they warn that justic white decis didn't draw a sharp enough line between nonprofit and for-profit activities. 
 perhap the most blatant sign that the insurg has becom the opiat of the clergi is that on the region cease-fir committe dure peac talk earlier this year five of the 20 nation democrat front slot were fill by priests.for their part the marxist have work hard to fudg the line between out-and-out communist and well-intent democrat social activist in unit front fashion a la nicaragua, anoth poor cathol countri that threw off a corrupt dictatorship. 
 the suprem court left intact a feder appeal court rule that banker trust co. may sell commerci paper for it clients.th high court refus to hear an appeal by the secur industri associ is a boost for the feder reserv board polici of allow the legal line between commerci bank and secur to blur. 
 politician in the nation third-largest citi began maneuv within hour after mr. washington die from a heart attack wednesday.neighborhood factions, often split along racial lines, are jockey behind the scenes, and some are call for a special election. 
 franc hodgson burnett left england as a child in the 1850s, and start write sentiment tale about her homeland while live in a kentucki log cabin -- which may account for their ideal sweetness.unfortunately, despit it excel cast, this hallmark hall of fame present cross the fine line that divid the sweet from the saccharine. 
 the fed can push down market interest rate through it so-cal open market operations, by buy secur from bank and thus ad money to the bank system.at the moment, the central bank seem to be walk a narrow line, use "open market" oper to keep rate down, but hold the discount rate stabl in an attempt to keep the exchang market calm. 
 cite numer precedents, pennzoil say texaco must prove that pennzoil intend to defraud public sharehold through it early-purchas arrang with the museum -- proof, it says, that doesn't exist.cit equal numer precedents, texaco and the sec say 10b-13 is a "bright line" rule with no room for interpret -- that by arrang to purchas share privat with it tender offer outstand pennzoil walk over the line of legality. 
 he got the job.now mr. murphi tread a thin line between the hacker he rever and the corpor client he reviles.th line is so thin that critic doubt that his reform is real. 
 no one can serious claim to have been delud about the polit of feder spend the past seven years.in draw the line on taxes, the presid made clear his intent to stop the great game of the 1960s and 1970s of turn over to the govern ever more of the privat economi resources. 
 becaus of the ambiguity, he say if broker are ask directly, "the safer cours . . . is to disclose.i wish we could give more specif advic to our member as to where the line should be drawn. 
 rep. john murtha (d., pa.), invok the bless of energi and commerc committe chairman john dingel (d., mich.), sought to extend this year deadlin until 1989, but back down after be assur of an opportun to offer the same amend on the floor."ther is a fine line between fix the clean air act and gut the act," said rep. edward boland (d., mass.), whose subcommitte overse the environment protect agenc and who expect the issu to return befor the house. 
 various vampir and zombi accost my wife and me.th park draw the line at spook in restroom as well as use devil worship and "excess act of violence" as themes, mr. zanvill says. 
 vast rich can result from schmooz on the telephone, over lunch, at the club, over drinks, or, as in levin case, dure discreet walks.when competit is intens and time is everything, the line between legitim share of gossip and illeg share of insid inform can blur. 
 desk trader said sell by sever fund group contribut to the market decline.mani fund manag -- includ those with high cash reserv -- are walk a thin line. 
 "we have these twin fear that inflat is go out of control or that we are head into recession," mr. jordan says.to allay those fears, mr. greenspan must walk a veri narrow line, he adds. 
 no doubt there are those with patholog cope mechan result in exercis abuse.however, there often is a fine line between the abus and those individu strive to enhanc the qualiti of their live through exercise. 
 "whi should guin sharehold finish up carri the costs, when it the distil sharehold who will benefit" from the acquisition?mr. seelig "perfect straddl the fine line between be faintheart and cut too mani corners," a corporate-fin director at a rival merchant bank said earlier this year. 
 we are made anxious by the juxtaposit of substanc with froth -- and for a good reason.publ tv is one of those twilight zone in which the line between "high" and "low" cultur are at their blurriest. 
 one woman engin was ask to open her case for inspection; it turn up onli birth-control pill and other person medications, accord to the burlington spokesman.crit say there a fine line between the corpor right to a drug-fre workplac and the employe right to privaci -- and dignity. 
 thompson claim it was all tax-fre as damag for person injury.now judg scott has drawn the line: the back-pay award is taxabl as wage "owing" to thompson that her employ "withheld" in a breach of contract. 
 how do we, in a free society, defin a govern that has cross the line between the permiss and the impermissible? 
 he said some burger king peopl were transfer to other positions, while some employe who weren't involv in the account were let go.on employe describ the mood in new york as "demoralized," and said the situat was exacerb becaus the layoff "cut across depart lines." 
 let virtu be it own reward."h draw the line, however, at altruism aim at the welfar of subhuman species: "the human heart is distend until it is as big as all outdoors." 
 and ms. gordon, the miami stockbroker, found a doctor who would prescrib anti-inflammatori drug to keep down the pain in her ankl and knee so noth would stop her exercis routine.som doctor and sport profession maintain that the line between healthi and obsess exercis is too fine to separ addict from averag exercisers. 
 he prefer not to think about where the good are headed; "i'm in the sale business," he says, "not delivery."loc u.s. custom offici tri to walk a fine line between cooper with the mexican counterpart and jeopard the right of the smugglers. 
 "we haven't figur out yet how to handicap the games, or how to handl the situation," say john fitzgerald, presid of the hilton hotel-casino."if some peopl cross the line and make a particular team look strong . . . that'll make a big difference." 
 it hasn't.ther a real delic line there, and it hard for peopl to understand how we do it." 
 that the teach occup need high profession standard is indisput -- and the board creat for that purpos should get on with the task.for it part, congress should think twice befor eras yet anoth line of demarc between public and private. 
 it simpli that the compani believ reader loyalti is dwindl as the other magazin make themselv too hospit to advertisers."you draw a line, and the seven sister will cross it," mr. selbert contends. 
 that point out a peculiar in black america.unlik most americans, black do not yet vote along class lines. 
 edward regan, the republican comptroller, said "it normal that the legislatur add {to spending}.it up to the execut to draw the line. 
 "this assur a hors race," said one person familiar with the committe thinking.but the forstmann-l group must walk a fine line with the directors. 
 mr. bush, the scion of an upperclass eastern family, chose the more polish navy.judg from mr. hyne descriptions, those are the class line along which that choic usual was made: "of my flight school friends, it was certain true that the well-br one tend to take navi commissions; and those like myself who felt provincial, or common, or underbred, chose the marin corps, where those qualiti wouldn't show." 
 this is the real scandal of racial politics, circa 1988.our own view is that the polit of race has becom too polar along party, and philosophical, lines. 
 we should enlarg the franchise, not chang it."mr. jackson call the wall street journal to complain about a front-pag stori last week that quot a number of moder or conserv democrat charg mr. jackson with threaten to split the parti along racial and class lines, especi if michael dukaki lose the elect to georg bush next tuesday. 
 "honoraria can onli be accept under the fiction that it payment for servic rendered," say stanley brand, former counsel to the hous of representatives.when use as a lobbi tool, he says, "a prosecutor may decid that it gone over the line from a payment to a gift or gratuiti or bribe." 
 at a news confer in boston, mr. syron gave few clue to his think on monetari policy, but he said the fed role is "made much more complicated" by the budget and trade deficits.th fed "has had to walk a very, veri fine line for some time," he said."on natur worri about how long you can go on walk a fine line." 
 the sheer mass of the black major -- 26 million, to 5 million white -- has trampl color barrier in the larger cities.urban has obscur tribal lines. 
 at various moment alla might recal edith piaf, tina turner or vicki carr sing "it must be him" while soft crying.alla belong to an intern tradit of emot nake chanteus who walk the line between sophist and schmaltz while act each song as if it were a playlet. 
 a few year ago, the idea that there might be anyth unconstitut about punit damag occupi scarc ani space in law review articles.but now the u.s. suprem court is be pepper with appeal urg the nine justic to draw the line on such damages. 
 "they want us to go along with them on the bush effort, in a public way.you admir peopl zeal, but you have to draw the line," say sister joy kronenberger, c.d.p., who oper an activ pro-lif education, poster and prayer program for the diocese. 
 pc magazin is one of about a half-dozen comput public that offer such electron companions, and more are on the way.thes servic are blur the line between print and electron publishing. 
 it proper involv a varieti of messag carrier -- includ the voic of america, worldnet televis and skilled, language-qualifi foreign-servic offic among other -- to reach import and divers audienc overseas.thes audienc themselv have interest that defi easi categor along inform or cultur lines. 
 the failur of judith richard hope to win confirm to the prestigi appeal court here mean the reagan administr has come up short in it effort to complet transform what mani lawyer and legal scholar consid the second most import court next to the u.s. suprem court.th u.s. court of appeal for the district of columbia circuit is split along partisan lines, with reagan nomine enjoy a slim, 6-5 majority. 
 consum and small-busi bank is overseen by mr. middlemas, the president, while big corpor custom are overseen by jame w. thompson, chairman of the southeast bank.th southeast bank also focus ncnb on customer-group lines, rather than accord to geography. 
 although it seem evid that sen. bentsen gave the far more polish perform last night, republican were hope that expect were so low for sen. quayl -- who has been constant critic and even ridicul sinc his select -- that mere stay on his feet for 90 minut and not make ani embarrass slip-up will remov him as a liabil for the gop ticket.th post-deb analysi fell along predict partisan lines, with each side say that it man did better. 
 he might have point out that multicultur grant tend to go to second-gener australian tri to rediscov their root rather than to newli arriv immigrants.or he might have point out that ani discrimin along racial line is anti-western, exact the sort of thing most immigr have come to australia to escape. 
 but he didn't.so today in australia there are some peopl argu the right thing for the wrong reason and other argu the wrong thing for the right reasons, cut across all polit lines. 
 certilman haft balin buckley kremer & hyman, a midsiz new york law firm, is split along geograph and practic lines, effect oct. 1. 
 what bother polic about such actions, say jerald vaughn, execut director of the intern associ of chief of police, is that they repres "a breakdown of the rule of law."h maintains, "it onli a matter of time befor these group step over the line. " they may begin roust other they dislik -- peopl "who are not the right skin color or the right religi persuasion," he says. 
 syria express support for a rival govern declar friday by it moslem alli after gemayel six-year term expired.th disput threaten to formal partit lebanon along sectarian line and rekindl the 13-year civil war. 
 as we develop more sophist and expens medications, azt will be rememb as a bargain.wher do we draw the line? 
 and even under the best of circumstances, u.s. offici say, it is unlik that all nine american hostag will be liberated.th reagan administr is tri to walk a fine line between make concess to terrorist and miss what some offici think is the most promis opportun yet to secur the hostag freedom. 
 a soar dollar would wipe out the competit edg of u.s. manufacturers, and probabl spark a recession.eaton may be walk a danger line by put so much faith in the lower dollar. 
 "we have decid that our origin disposit was not an appropri one," the court said.th influenti court has been close divid along partisan and ideolog lines. 
 "ideolog p.r." in washington (as publicist melinda patrician put it) is be handl by fenton communic inc., which arrang screen for civil-right group and communiti leaders, squeez mr. costa-gavra in with it effort as a regist foreign agent for the govern of angola. (the danni ortega and mauric bishop p.r. account have gone.)a press releas intones: "there is a fine line between fact and fiction. 
 you need truck to go everywhere," mr. mcmillin said.whil he was bullish on sara lee strategy, mr. mcmillin said integr food-servic compani -- which typic are entrepreneuri busi organ along region line -- often is a long and difficult process. 
 unless the case is settl out of court, it may yet establish a preced that help defin the differ between busi and pleasure.say stanley chesley, the cincinnati attorney repres mrs. goldstein: "it a fine line distinction, and ultim a juri will decide." 
 that began a polit fiasco that kill the industri chanc for a 1988 recovery.in what a congression aid call "the north-south war," the soybean associ split along region lines. 
 the committe also back reynold research that found "a substanti reduct in the irrit properties" of tobacco smoke in the air.but the rjr nabisco inc. unit continu to walk a narrow line between publish it research and promot it product as a safer cigarette. 
 the product is more expens to make than convent cigarett -- and that requir a higher price tag, which also mean go after a more affluent consumer.beyond that, the compani must walk a fine line in pitch the cigarett as "cleaner" without repres that it is healthier. 
 should it realli be the top defens prioriti of a philippin presid to dicker over more dollar from american allies?or is it perhap more import to draw a clear line against the soviet union increas militari presenc in the pacific? 
 but for 11 years, presid zia forestal polit liberalizations.a a result, social and polit pressur are start to pull pakistan apart, along ethnic lines. 
 if statist were collected, manhattan island would be terrifi by an astronom trade deficit.in anoth sens it is an artifact of econom fashion: a reflect of where economist current choos to draw line in a great circl of transactions: onc everyth -- goods, services, bond and so on -- is included, the account must balance; for everi buyer there has to be a seller. 
 some smoke foe claim it seek "endorsements."in ani event, reynold may be walk a fine line between get out the fact and get ensnar in regulatori problems. 
  "but we are will to stand on our scienc in term of what we have done to reduc various product of burn tobacco. is that a narrow line?it a veri narrow but import line." 
 in new zealand there are two groups, maori and pakeha, who believ they have legitim claim to resources.giv to one group mean take from the other, and the take in this case is inevit go to be along racial lines. 
 in fact, the feel often is like a box match, with first one contend and then the other strike a blow for his or her life style or point of view while the crowd applauds.in play of this kind the playwright often walk a thin line between a televis sitcom and real drama. 
 becaus of a paper shortage, izvestia is usual just six page and sever of those are for offici communiques.mostly, though, it is a question of decid where to draw the line. 
 this year and the next may be the worst ever for the municip market in term of low volum of new issues, but the market should then be pois for a turnaround, said paul sinsar, drexel nation institut sale manag of municip bonds.drexel itself is attempt to increas it presenc in the municip market, recent reorgan it public financ effort by divid the depart along region lines. 
 "to the extent the nomura invest repres a willing to back contest transactions, it is a strategi differ from ours," said peter rona, chief execut of ibj schroder bank & trust co., a u.s. unit of industri bank of japan.mr. drapkin of the revlon group and some other u.s. merger expert contend that the transact indic that japanes firms, led by nomura, will push harder in pursu u.s. acquisitions, stretch the line between what is a friend and hostil bid. 
 the studi found, in addition, that two-third of all parent owe support were becom delinqu within three year of the order.th situation, which cross all incom and class lines, contribut signific to the impoverish of women and children. 
 "this will caus more hard feel in {the houston suburb of} river oak than steal someon els maid," joke rep. charl wilson (d., texas)."bentsen will draw the line in the dust like travi at the alamo." 
 mr. weld outlin to the senators, in essence, the indict he would have brought against mr. meese, had he been the independ counsel.mr. weld said he resign becaus "i simpli felt that, in tri to do favor for his friend, mr. mees was drawn in over his head, and over the line of what the law allows." 
 telemarket make rapid stride at u.s. corporations.lin between telemarket and tradit market are fast blurring, say a confer board report. 
 split along partisan lines, the senat judiciari committe yesterday reject the controversi nomin of bernard siegan to the court of appeal for the ninth circuit in san francisco. 
 potenti run mate were requir to submit box of document and to complet a questionnair so detail that sen. glenn divid it among his advisers.th 50-question survey, which ran more than six page single-spaced, itself serv as a winnow agent; mr. nunn drew the line at answer it, and hous major leader thoma foley wife, who is also one of his closest advisers, found it onerous. 
 there an element of sycoph in mr. mackay, but he never seem grate obsequious.th interest thing about his approach is that it forc him to tread a thousand fine lines. 
 but feder offici charg that some of the compani are go too far."when you'r mislead the public, there a line.most of these group go way over the line," say philip gambino, a spokesman for the social secur administration. 
 "it ludicr and rather obsequi to pretend you are warm, close friend in a busi environment," say ms. martin, the columnist."it obscur the line of rank and command." 
 "there a way of hugging, and there a way of hugging.and that one was over the line. 
 yet, at times, justic scalia can be unpredictable.h has said the court should rethink it 1973 test in which local communiti standard are use to decid when pornographi is protect by the first amendment; the line is too hard to draw. 
 cement a parti structur that was establish onli with western pressur as a channel for arms, and with it cement fring politics, "could make afghanistan look like lebanon," say mohammad naim farahi, a tribal leader from farah province.a better solution, say most afghans, is a "loya jirga," or tradit afghan congress made up of district representatives, chiefli along tribal or ethnic lines. 
 competit did, as advertised, save money, but it also made insid inform far more valuabl -- and threaten to the entir procur system itself.oper ill wind, the code name for the two-year investig blow like a typhoon through the pentagon, is show that some competitor are go over the line in vy for contracts, which now total more than $160 billion a year. 
 but as the southeast economi has boom in thatcherit britain, the blot are threaten the picturesqu edg of the greenbelt.though the govern promis it won't step over the line, the tori are increas refus to sanctifi place that lie just outsid it. 
 one copyright lawyer familiar with advertis issu said that if the fight get to court, the disput would hing on whether soap opera is "realli poke fun at roll stone, or whether they'r just use that campaign as a cheap, if you will, creativ attempt to ride on their shirttails."ther is a fine line between parodi and copyright infringement. 
 yet to a larg degree, mr. jackson has accomplish what he set out to do when he first announc his candidaci for the democrat presidenti nomination.h has succeed in creat a movement across racial line -- a movement of societi have-not -- and give that movement a drive focus for it polit aspirations. 
 so it soon will start a program to train near 50,000 complianc manag and employe by dec. 31 in the right and wrong way to use statistics.it a fine line to walk. 
 at maryland coordin center, about 60% of the client are singl parents, often poor, young, inner-c women.prematur and diseas reach across class line to the best and the worst of mothers, but a poor mother is at least twice as like to have a babi born with low birthweight -- the babi at much higher risk of problem such as mental retardation, chronic lung ailments, blind and deafness. 
 at maryland coordin center, about 60% of the client are singl parents, often poor, young, inner-c women.prematur and diseas reach across class line to the best and the worst of mothers, but a poor mother is at least twice as like to have a babi born with low birthweight -- the babi at much higher risk of problem such as mental retardation, chronic lung ailments, blind and deafness. 
 indeed, if mr. wright were a member of the execut branch, even the trivia the ethic committe is will to investig might prove polit fatal.w can't get too concern about draw line between public and privat expenditur of an aid time, but in 1983 former assist hud secretari e.s. sava was driven out of washington becaus one of his assist without his knowledg had a govern secretari spend 20 hour type correct in the manuscript for his scholar book, "privat the public sector." 
 libya col. moammar gadhafi was given the floor at the summit close to deliv a long lectur on the histori of liber movements, liken the struggl of the palestinian to the fight of the algerian against the french.among the moderates, jordan king hussein in particular manag here to walk a fine line between demonstr support for the palestinian and appear to wish to usurp the plo posit as the legitim spokesman for palestinians. 
 the scammer themselv are quick to move at the first hint of trouble, surfac in a new place under a new name to fleec a new flock.and frequent good case can't be made against them anyway, becaus the line between outright fraud and uneth but technic legal behavior is often indistinct. 
 mani takeov lawyer cross the line between legal advis and busi strategist. 
 "it is not easi to have a consensus," he said, "becaus it is technic a complex problem."th issu of reducing, maintain or increas the cartel product ceil has divid the minist along the same line as the production-definit issue, with a major of eight clear in favor of some action to prop up weak oil prices. 
 market research show strong demand in the hispan communiti for what he call "cross-ov shows," which are similar in content and format to the general show but gear to the hispan audience."mus transcend cultur lines," he said. 
 "to go beyond is veri hard (but) if we don't do it now we'r lost."th respons is most power among black voters, where apartheid touch an emot chord reach across class lines. 
 "to go beyond is veri hard (but) if we don't do it now we'r lost."th respons is most power among black voters, where apartheid touch an emot chord reach across class lines. 
 but sacc field worker still oper abov ground, out in the open, where their effort to monitor and allevi the repress condit in the countri black township bring them into constant conflict with the authorities.mr. kgori and other field worker walk the fine line between social work, which is grudg toler by the government, and activism, which isn't. 
 mr. walker and some other conserv believ that confront has it place."w think there is some merit in draw the line in the sand and say we want to draw the distinct between conserv and liberals," rep.. walker says. 
 wall street sourc say odyssey hold just under 5% of amfac, though it hasn't bought share sinc late 1986.odyssey is among the invest firm newli blur the line between management-endors leverag buy-out and hostil takeov transactions. 
 "i guess i would argu that there some inform that shouldn't be getable," mr. lambert says."everyon would draw the line somewhat differently.obviously, we draw the line that video rental is one area where peopl should have protection." 
 so, it reinstat the 1986 decision, which was written by chief judg patricia wald.a has been the case on some other recent occasions, the appeal court was split along ideolog lines, with five judg appoint by democrat presid vote to approv the watchdog group stand and five appoint by presid reagan opposed. 
 sinc one reason for creat a diffus held corpor in the first place is to separ govern from investment, this measur would rais transact cost somewhat.but the line must be drawn somewher regard sharehold particip in compani decisions. 
 had these student been given a basic ground in principl of busi ethics, they would have learn that this "go along to get along" mental is exact what has gotten so mani compani into trouble.in the area of gather competitor inform -- where there is a fine line between aggress market research and corpor espionag -- few busi decis are without ethic ramifications. 
 now everybodi and his brother want out.now we can get away from the blurri line between pure entertain and disguis toy commercial." 
 mr. dukaki also is be view more favor by black voters, whose enthusiast support he will need in november.in new york, where mayor ed koch strident attack on mr. jackson help creat a campaign sharpli polar along racial lines, black voter view mr. dukaki unfavor by a margin of 33% to 27%. 
 but a former chun govern offici said there was "noth approach a power struggl after the inaugur of the new president."oth say mr. roh has been walk a fine line in the post-chun period between his own polit interest and loyalti to the old friend and fellow general whom he help bring to power in 1979. 
 yet it isn't easi to serv both giant aerospac concern and one-man machin shops.milacron also must walk a narrow line, suppli the machin that manufactur want today without back away from advanc technology. 
 norman m. coulson, presid of glenf inc., the glendale, calif.-bas parent of the nation fifth-largest thrift, note that his institut has good will on it book stem from acquisit of troubl thrift that were made in the earli 1980s to help the fslic."i'm concern about how they draw the line," he said. 
 earlier this month, a major invest bank firm, shearson lehman hutton inc., took an equiti posit in a group seek control of kopper co., a pittsburgh construct materi concern.th move mark the first time in memori a takeov advis cross the line to act as a hostil suitor. 
 "the trend is to respect individu privaci a lot more and toler unorthodox life styles," say terri l. leap, a manag professor at clemson univers who has studi off-duti firings.h add that the grow use of drug test -- and subsequ fire -- has heighten the issu becaus it "draw the line between public and privat conduct." 
 like ms. luckyn-malone, whose research is supplement by a nikko secur co. affili in tokyo, mr. wignal insist that gt ultim rest it invest decis on fundamentals.for dimension fund advisors, the solut to tokyo inscrut is eleg simple: with help from nomura secur co., dfa rank compani in the tokyo stock exchang first section by market capitalization, draw a line between big and small stocks, and buy all the small one -- around 550 of them. 
 that, he says, is worrisome: "if the ethic of the corpor becom the ethic of the universities, then we'r realli in trouble."even now, univers busi program "walk a lot thinner line regard ethic than they use to," say charl hickman, director of project and member servic for the american assembl of collegi school of business. 
 in the ibm culture, that like russia politburo beg report to write about a hot young parti member.ibm draw the line on too much technic detail, however. 
 nbc and disney would like share profit from reruns, which may be syndic by disney buena vista sibling, if their comedi seri ultim is sold to local stations.a the line between cabl tv and the rest of the busi blur, cabl is mimick some of regular tv most timeworn techniques, such as the spinoff. 
 "what british attorney would defend a nazi in the second world war?" he asks. "in israel, we are at war, and if you defend terrorist you cross the line into the enemi camp."ms. tsemel cross that line just after the 1967 war. 
 none of the lead democrat has the nerv -- so far -- to demand from him a more complet accounting."in moderation," kevin phillips, the gop theoretician, said earlier this week, "some of that might actual help the democrats, but draw the line is go to be veri tricky." 
 a member of the japanes negoti team confirm that tokyo want the talk to continue, and said it has offer "sincer and substant proposals" and that "some progress has been made."th japanes acknowledged, though, that they had fail to reach agreement with the u.s. on sever issues, includ how to draw a line between the public and privat sector in the project discussed. 
 the structur of the partnership also allow the group to bypass feder antitrust regul that would have prohibit the member from easili accumul a larg posit in kopper stock; yesterday, the group disclos that it held a 7.45% stake in the company.bi join the hostil bid, shearson step over the line invest bank have long consid but rarely, if ever, crossed. 
 it also yield 10 to 12 basi point less than a compar ford motor credit offer in the u.s., accord to syndic specialists.however, the lacklust recept of general electr capit corp. mid-februari $250 million issu may demonstr that even a top-rat borrow can overstep the line between inexpens financ and an over aggress deal, syndic specialist argue. 
 we hear it as a rumor," say the investor."wher do you draw the line between a rumor and insid information?" 
 he add that onli about 50% of the financi planner affili with the compani work on commiss anyway; the other work for a fee.th seri bring up yet again the controversi over paid programming, which can blur the line between news and advertising. 
 mr. timmeny, now in privat practic in washington, is frequent hire by corpor board in such situations.that "bright line," he says, is a compani formal concensus to go after an acquisition. 
 but wast manag executives, he says, never cross it.oth say the line isn't quit so clear. 
 allegi corp. plan to make a $2.84 billion tender offer for 63% of it share appear to straddl the line in a tug-of-war between sharehold and the compani management. 
 "dan rather was out of control," said christin dolan, who direct cabl news network polit coverage."h had the right to press the vice president, but he cross the line with his badgering." 
 rancher play classic music to their cattl in the barns, while out in the fields, worker and their famili live on diet of leftov silage."th line between moral and immor has vanished," say fernando collor de mello, the governor.th drive to redraw that line start here sever year ago, when a state assemblyman name antonio saturnino de mendonca neto rais charg that the govern was full of money-grab loafers. 
 all major dealer are "certain less aggressive" in posit larg block of bonds, say robert dennis, presid of massachusett financi servic mfs manag municip bond trust.th brokerag firm are walk a "fine line between serv their custom and manag their own risk," he says. 
 for example, the question of "how much is too much" of a specif toxic chemic is one that has bedevil regulatori agenc sinc the begin of modern toxic law.even after a chemic is absolut confirm to caus cancer, base on laboratori or workplac doses, there is extens debat over the danger of smaller doses, and where or whether to draw a line between amount worth worri about and amount that can more or less be safe ignored. 
 even after a chemic is absolut confirm to caus cancer, base on laboratori or workplac doses, there is extens debat over the danger of smaller doses, and where or whether to draw a line between amount worth worri about and amount that can more or less be safe ignored.und the typic toxic control law, govern scientist and regul have the job of decid where to draw the line for each chemical; and until the line is drawn, in effect, the law is not in force. 
 this has long been a societi divid between the "haves" and the "will haves," to steal a phrase.when the day arriv that class line grow rigid, when we are a nation of perman have and have-nots, we will have becom someth other than america. 
 he propos develop "the idea of a refer zone that can be sustain for at least 18 months."oth echo this thought, though at least one wonder -- as i do -- whether there is ani defens line between the float rate that have prove so unstabl and fix rate intend to take preced over domest econom policy. 
 what this indic is that when order growth acceler . . . each increment revenu dollar will generat a lot of profit," mr. schulman added.sinc the stock market crash, digit has been tri to walk a fine line between expand market share -- by increas sale and market spend -- and control costs. 
 should -- and can -- the schools, mani of which are alreadi overburdened, take on the ad reponsibility?how sharpli should the line be drawn between the school educ and care functions? 
 when pressed, heinz eiermann, head of color and cosmet for the fda, conced that the peopl who buy these thing probabl "like to be fooled."but he say "there a line -- it may be a fuzzi line -- where you have to say, enough is enough." 
 "in the word of gypsi rose lee," ms. hoyt said, "you gotta have a gimmick."thi gimmick, mani pr consult concur, cross the line. 
 even now, univers busi program "walk a lot thinner line regard ethic than they use to," say charl hickman, director of project and member servic for the american assembl of collegi school of business.but in the case at west virginia univers colleg of busi and economics, the student not onli walk the line. 
 however, you'r miss the point.th constant danc on the border of what is crimin and what is not and the consist cross of the line of what is ethic by the attorney general of the unit state -- the highest legal offic in the land -- make a mockeri of our sens of justice. 
 "but most public compani fail to see the differ between a (short-term) bridg loan and an equiti investment, anyway.shearson step over the line, but it shouldn't hurt them. 
 the race mingl in depart store and at downtown restaurants, where citi employe all eat between noon and one.but beneath the cordial is a schism, larg along racial lines. 
 onc this happens, everyth from a phone call to a breakfast meet in the corpor dine room amount to corpor activ on behalf of a candid -- someth forbidden by the campaign laws.it too soon to say with certainti where the line is or how much one has to do to cross it. 
 broadway new hit, "the phantom of the opera," take place in the dim recess of a 19th centuri pari opera house.th dark, omin set deliber blur the line between audienc and stage; for instance, the proscenium has been move forward to embrac sever row of balconi seats.but the line between insid and outsid the theater has also been blurred. 
 but the law doesn't spell out clear what those "steps" could be, allow for sharpli differ opinion on the matter."you look for the bright line beyond which you should not trade," say wallac timmeny, a former deputi director of the secur and exchang commiss enforc divis who was hire by wast manag special committe to lead the investig of the insid trade allegations. 
 mr. timmeny, now in privat practic in washington, is frequent hire by corpor board in such situations. that "bright line," he says, is a compani formal concensus to go after an acquisition.mr. timmeni say that individu trader within a compani may reach that line befor the compani itself. 
 and no. 2, (if they do) it should be reveal that that is the arrangement," he says."that a fine line across which one shouldn't pass." 
 the obvious repli is that "tour of duty" is much more than a macho shoot-'em-up.within the constraint of prime time, it offer power yet clear-ey dramat of such divers topic as racial conflict, substanc abuse, the insensit of journalists, the arrog of anti-war protesters, the poignanc of reunion with love ones, the power of letter from home, trust and mistrust toward the south vietnamese, the line between use braveri and useless heroics, the ambit of officers, the decept of the enemy. 
 while we believ that we should have onli the govern we need, our respons to the most vulner member of our societi requir that we also have all the govern we need.wher the line get drawn is alway a matter of judgment. 
 we should consid set up special camp in our more underpopul state such as wyom or montana, where noncontribut segment of the popul can perform use work . . ."anoth letter sniffs: "as view from the other, presum greener, side of the line, i can assur you it is imposs to obtain the servic of a compet housekeeper. 
 they sit around hope someon will sudden say, let call it jell-o.'"brainstorm are alway walk the fine line of faux pas. 
 madison respond that the distinct was "altogeth fanciful.if a line can be drawn between the power grant and the right retained, it would seem to be the same thing, whether the latter be secured, by declar that they shall not be abridged, or that the former shall not be extended." 
 the high court let stand the feder reserv board approv for a bank hold company, a subsidiari of nation westminst bank plc, britain largest commerci bank, to oper a brokerag subsidiari that trade secur and offer invest advice.th fed approv was anoth in a seri of regulatori step that have blur the line between the bank and secur industries. 
 we'r inclin to think that the vice presid deserv some defend on this point.h alon seem will to say that a line has to be drawn somewher in front of the dead-end polit of the iran-contra affair. 
 mani are concern that reduc the overhang quick will wreck alreadi shaken markets, but there is pressur on the regul from congress and develop to sell as much as they can as soon as they can, and the pace seem to be quickening."you walk a veri fine line between fulfil your mandat of wind up the affair of the institution, and not creat disrupt in the marketplace," say thoma procopio, the feder save and loan insur corp. southern region director for receivership activities. 
 it was all too mellow to be believed, but they probabl would have gotten away with it, had they not felt compel to add ms. collin signatur tune, "amaz grace," and ask for audienc participation.that went over the permiss line for warm and fuzzi feelings. 
 "i'd be destroy myself," repli mr. korotich, who then asks, "what would that accomplish?"hi answer reveal his vulner -- it also draw the line that soviet societi must cross to enter the normal dialogu of western culture.it is the line beyond which the press can report not onli on the bankruptci of factori but on the failur of even admir leaders. 
 "peopl see extra messag in advertising, and if a manufactur is clear tri to get someth out of it . . . if it too transpar . . . then consum will see through that," warn john philip jones, chairman of the advertis depart at the newhous school of public communic at syracus university."it can backfir becaus compani can step across the line and go too far, be too pushy," agre gari stibel, a princip with new england consult group, westport, conn. 
 the fcc now say 8 p.m. is the time that is all right to begin air indec materi becaus children aren't like listen in great numbers. earlier, the agenc set the decenc line at midnight, but an appeal court reject that time as too restrictive."you have to draw some lines," said robert pettit, the fcc general counsel. 
 consult have said that it will take a while for all the piec of the ibm strategi to fall into place, even though the specif product ibm unveil will general be avail by the end of the first quarter.sam albert, a consult in scarsdale, n.y., said that in the past ibm has develop broad softwar strategi onli for problem that cross industri lines. 
 moreover, ticket split appear to take the same peculiar pattern at the state govern level as it doe at the feder level.st govern is more typic split along republican-governor/democratic-legislatur line than the reverse. 
 it has been right observ that the main thing wrong with taint money is, t'aint enough of it.a hand of the new crowd oper have cross the line from the immor to the illegal, and have end up in the slammer or pay huge fines: ivan boesky, denni levine, martin siegel, victor and steven posner, and now michael milken and perhap leona helmsley. 
 although wang will report a loss for the first quarter end sept. 30 and the full fiscal year, mr. miller say he expect the compani will return to profit by the fourth quarter.expert on sale techniqu say anyon repres a troubl compani must walk a fine line. 
 that the convent theori anyway.in practice, however, the line between interpret and redefinit of the crimin law long ago began to blur. 
 or did mr. chestman onli hear a market rumor (which one may law trade upon)?th line seem aw thin for criminal-law purposes. 
 although the averag citizen is probabl not harm too much from washington rhetor war against wall street regard excess financi leveraging, actual legisl would probabl impos consider harm.ani such attempt to distinguish "good debt" from "bad debt," or to draw the line at a particular industry, such as the airlines, is like to blunt the spur that the proper amount of leverag provid both to equiti market and econom effici in general. 
 "in most cases, the client is more inclin to be conserv becaus they want to protect a franchis that can take onli so much fiddling," say mr. lindsay."you'r tread a fine line." 
 indeed, research is the one clear compar advantag that educ institut have over other competitor in the field of human-resourc development.th line between educ and train is often a fine one, and european busi school should continu to ensur that the valu they can provid is differ from that of consult firm and in-hous corpor train programs. 
 news show use to be sacrosanct -- you show real footag or you didn't show anything.today, those line are blurred. 
 bush antitrust offici may not attack a substanti greater number of merger than the reagan administration, but their choic of case will signal an intent to appli a tighter mesh.th antitrust divis treatment of coor propos acquisit of stroh brew will indic where mr. rill plan to draw the line. 
 "we'v all done busi with them -- sold them car or houses," say a cali banker and polo club member who sometim has difficulti reach his offic floor becaus the narcos, who also have offic in his building, have bribe the elev oper with soccer ticket to stop onli at their floors."it veri difficult to draw the line." 
 what shock at first becom routin the fourth time, and "normal" the 14th.the line in mainstream film was cross in 1976 in "silver streak," a success comedi with gratuit violenc spice up the slapstick. 
 alreadi there have been passion exhang over the issu of syria.but the debat hasn't follow strict sectarian lines. 
 -- mr. breeden said the regul system could be strengthen by improv coordin among regulators.th sec and the commod futur trade commiss "should tri to develop mutual accept propos to defin product and jurisdict lines," he said, and the lack of clariti in determin jurisdict "doe advers affect u.s. competitiveness." 
 "bush has frustrat them, in part by do so little, in part by preserv his popularity.h been a difficult target and they'r so eager for a partisan confront to draw the line with him that they'v seiz on this." 
 he succeed richard t. gerstner, who has a chronic back problem that has kept him from work full-tim and who will move into an unspecified, special assignment.mr. cannavino, 45 year old, will bring more technic knowledg to the job than mr. gerstner possess -- at a time when the line between person comput and workstat is blurring, creat a confus array of technic choices. 
 but some bank have particip in leverag buy-out under waiver allow them to buy near 50% of small businesses.in the current climat in which sever leverag compani have run into trouble, unsettl the entir junk-bond market, the fed appar drew the line at allow the del mont unit to qualifi as a small business. 
 among his choic are coca-cola, merck, procter & gambl and philip morris.ther is a fine line between an economi that crawl and one that falls.mickey levy, chief economist at first fidel bancorp. in philadelphia, say he think the economi is walk that line. 
 thus, compani say they'r forc into a balanc act.say mr. brainard of refin sugars, "you'r realli walk a fine line between be abl to attract good peopl and be abl to run a profit busi without give away the store." 
 in scene like the one in which shirer cooper with a u.s. naval intellig offic request to do a littl spi on the side, the film illustr veri clear that the surviv of press freedom depend on that of legitim constitut government.when confront with a world-class liar like goebbels, or (more recently) with the kind of peopl who thought noth of whitewash the blood from tiananmen square, it hearten to know that a line still exist between journalist pride and journalist hubris. 
 under the senat bill, for example, a compani could be requir to offer ani benefit to 90% of employe and pay at least 60% of the costs.a senat aid familiar with section 89 say rep. rostenkowski "has move the line with this new proposal, but he hasn't abandon the principle. 
 "there a lot to be said for it," say william poole, a brown univers economist and former presidenti econom adviser."it would promot clear line of responsibility." 
 the $60 million sear just pocket from the state of illinoi in exchang for retain it headquart in the state may well repres a competit brake on the avaric of the state government.but there is a fine line separ tax rate reduct from the public dole. 
 "i believ in let compani have a reason return.but where doe one draw the line and say you'v made enough profit, and now it unseemly?" ask peter jensen, chief of infecti diseas of the san francisco va hospital. 
 some peopl even blame ir inact for encourag the epidem of build-noth bonds.th more aggress secur firm "put a foot over the chalk line and look around, and nobodi said anything," say austin koenen, vice chairman of the public secur association, "so everyon els move over the line." 
 the languag would extend this prohibit to the 20% of domest flight that aren't current cover by the no-smok rule.th same long-dist traffic account for a larger share -- more than a third -- of total airlin passengers, and tobacco alli had hope to draw the line at two hours. 
 the 37-year-old mrs. ros-lehtinen, who was born in havana, defeat mr. richman, 48, a miami lawyer, by 53% to 47% in a bitter fought race that pit mrs. ros-lehtinen littl havana constitu against mr. richman jewish constitu center in miami beach.both candid were critic for urg voter to cast their ballot along ethnic lines. 
 of workahol behaviorwith mani manag routin put in 60 hour work weeks, it may seem hard for them to know when they'v cross the line from simpli work hard to the unhealthi obsess of workaholism. 
 voter condemn the press for print all this inform at the same time they read everi word of it voraciously."draw the line is tricki business, but when it come to heterosexu politicians, at least there are a few basics. 
 "this is unquestion an indirect shot at general mills," say john mcmillin, food analyst at prudential-bach secur inc., note the question rais about the studi cite in general mill advertis for benefit.a for how one can distinguish between a "claim" and a "message," he says, "it a veri fine line." 
 ileana ros-lehtinen, who got 53% of the vote, is the first cuban-american elect to congress.both candid in the bitter fought race were critic for urg voter to cast ballot along ethnic lines. 
 mr. helmsley, 80 year old, was name in the indict but judg john walker jr. rule he wasn't well enough to stand trial.tax lawyer say the case involv area where it is hard to draw the line between crimin activ and defici tax practices. 
 "we'v got a lot of client that will never do this," stephen l. nesbitt, wilshir head of pension consulting, say of junk investing."for a lot of foundat and public funds, this cross the line of polit acceptability." 
 ---your writer remind us the problem cut across all socioeconom lines, affect all age groups, and result in stagger human and financi losses. 
 add john p. schaefer, an outsid board member who now is chairman, no one want to infring on mr. greve author and discretion."ther is a fine line," he says, "between oversight and interf in management." 
 moscow appear will to permit non-communist to attempt to reviv warsaw falter economi so long as the soviet union secur interest are protected.mr. walesa understand that there are line drawn by the soviet that his movement can't cross. 
 for hous and senat appropriators, chang prioriti mean adapt old method to new ends.tradit line of jurisdict blur as foreign-aid, space and militari account are tap for environment projects. 
 by slight modifi it technic standards, the new order add the ibm ps/2 model 50 and it clone to the list of desktop to be taken off the control list.th earlier decis drew the line at the ps/2 model 30 and their equivalents. 
 now congress, it seems, is close the windows, pull the shades, and bar the door, lest the public see the light.sometime, somewhere, the presid need to draw the line. 
 draw deepli on a lucki strike, he says: "we never had a problem with the nea until an acknowledg homosexu who die of aid -- and i'm sorri he did -- came along with a seri of photograph design to promot homosexuality.ther i draw the line."it is a line that mani beltway cassandra say may divid lawmak in "the smut and obscen vote of the year," a line run through an except tricki polit quagmire, in which the basic aesthet issu tend to sink below the surface. 
 over the decades, the suprem court has determin that so-cal commerci speech -- which it defin as speech lead to a commerci transact -- has less protect than doe the rest of speech.so if you say "buy finnegan ice cream," that has less protect than if you say "ice cream is good for you." (if you say "finnegan ice cream is good for you," it debat whether you'r lead up to a commerci transaction, which is one problem with draw line when line shouldn't be drawn.) 
 the lawsuit say mr. campbel inform mr. meier of inquiri made by the sec and the complianc depart of merril lynch and smith barney.lawy who have follow such case say there is a fine line between illeg insid trade and piggy-back that doesn't violat the law. 
 famili dissolution, moreover, is often the consequ rather than the caus of the econom reshuffl we are see in america.whil it is true that complex cultur chang have creat a steadi rise in divorc and illegitimaci dure most of the 20th centuri (the u.s. has had the highest divorc rate in the world sinc 1899), peopl with the lowest educ attain and greatest vulner to poverti have histor had the highest rate of divorce, illegitimaci and child neglect. (sexual abus is much more even distribut across class lines.) these are the peopl who have been the big loser sinc the late 1960s. 
 even peopl who did not accept that logic would have regard it as involv an unnecessari and undesir deflect of tax and expenditur program from their long-run course.ther was a polici consensus in favor of option b in a mild recess and option c in a sever one, with the main argument about how to draw the line between mild and severe. 
 "there is no doubt that there is some type of conduct involv the deliber releas of fals inform that may not just be libel but may also be fraudulent," agre mr. abrams, the libel attorney.but becaus so few suit are file over competit tactic -- and almost none ever decid in court -- the hazi line between what fair and what illeg can be hard to pin down. 
 but becaus so few suit are file over competit tactic -- and almost none ever decid in court -- the hazi line between what fair and what illeg can be hard to pin down."th line is not easi to define," say mr. hanson. 
 "but it come when an organ becom more concern with destroy a compet busi than in demonstr that it own good and servic are superior."h adds, "when the sole purpos of a market strategi is the defeat of a certain company, then the compani has gone across a line that probabl will lead into question behavior." 
 the clear suggest was that they had decid to throw the support of their power ldp faction behind mr. kaifu.tsutomu hata, a takeshita-fact diet member and former agricultur minister, said in a televis interview that mr. kaifu is "the type of person who cross faction lines," mean that he could be support by member of other factions. 
 advertis agenc are use to difficult clients, but sometim you have to draw the line. 
 the u.s. group fear a return to the violenc of the earli 1980s by death squad that have been link to some arena parti leaders."w believ the line has to be drawn veri clear on el salvador," say mr. byrn of cispes. 
 i think it fair to say that i would like to have the luxuri of be abl to make a cut as to some type of person that i would defend, and other that i would prefer not to.ther are peopl or institut that are legitimate, that have a real business, and who step over the line, and have to be held account for it. 
  there was thus a limit to wilson patienc . he public set it at the line where admit neutral right were infring after protract warn , and he made it a point of nation self-respect and honor to defend those right .
  the vital judici issu is apt , therefor , to be their accommod . decis thus becom essenti a matter of draw line .
  usual we come out that i can tell the compani everyth that i think will matter in the least bit to what he go to be like on the job from nine to five . if i thought he was go to be cruis at the water cooler at ten-thirti in the morn , i might have to draw the line .
  he was go to be put into confin , perhap for month ; he would be almost entir depriv of direct contact with other human be ; he would live in a steril , purifi world . and then deliber with further drug and radiat treatment he was go to be driven down to the fine line which separ life from death .
  what did it mean ? where was the line between intimaci and privaci ?
  she was surpris when shirley told her that the higgins , shirley first parents-in-law , had spoken of her as a socialist . all she had ever done was draw the line between possibl and inconceiv behavior , which were her person substitut for right and wrong .
  present , when jame gave a farewel parti becaus his sister and brothers-in-law were leav pari , he casual invit the maurel and the ziff . here they drew the line : enough was enough .
  i can't see ani basic differ between sell your bodi for sex and sell it for basebal or footbal ; or for that matter , sell the abil to write or draw . with sex , the line between give a dinner or a trinket and give cash seem particular thin .
  by ignor the democrat mean that is perhap the most basic tenet of liber , these new liber in fact abandon their earlier faith . not surpris , conserv welcom this chang of heart , as well as the program of social order and econom develop , thus blur the line between the two histor rival .
  this attitud is at the root of most of the cheat that has becom so preval late , abov all among success student in " good " school . the line is not easi to draw between read a teacher mind , or make him think you know what you don't know , and outright cheat .
  studi the human condit , a writer use such enlighten as come to hand . and as for the sex , artist in everi field have been abl to cross that line ; it is common knowledg that witch can chang their sex at will .
  in 1916 , harvard research physiologist regard the engin scienc somewhat as philosoph of the sixteenth centuri look on barber-surgeon use creatur but hard to be includ in the guild of scholar . when cecil propos the appoint of his brother philip , he step across tradit academ line .
  it labor director and faculti member were progress or radic . no polit line were drawn in admit student so that typic the student bodi includ conserv trade unionist as well as communist parti member .
  on the other hand , we should seek to minim , if not entir elimin , our militari presenc in the less develop countri of asia , and we should minim allianc that commit us irrevoc to their defens , particular in unilater action , or run the risk of embroil us in their civil war . it will not alway be easi to draw the line between undesir militari role and use one .
  forward suppli can larg be store in these same area , and land forc are best held in reserv on our own soil . draw a line between militari aid and militari involv may be harder , but it can be done if we keep the distinct clear in mind .
  to lincoln charg that popular sovereignti was incompat with the dred scott decis , dougla repli that citizen of a territori could bypass the decis simpli by fail to pass law to protect slaveri , sinc slaveri obvious could not exist anywher without law to protect it . the repli was suffici to let dougla gain re-elect to the senat in illinoi , but it split the democrat parti into slaveri and popular-sovereignti faction which divid along section line .
  the fact is , howev , that while the regim has fluctuat between permiss and crackdown , noth fundament has chang . the suppos new freedom and reform all stop safe befor the line where they might imping on the power monopoli .
  the object was to make a kill , and noth less would do . the climb curv of the dow-jon averag was liter a fever chart of a specul virus which cross all social and econom line .
  mispris is one thing ; cocksur , quick-on-the-trigg judgment are anoth . it is a narrow line we walk , alway , between help and hindranc .
  the relationship between the two is dialect ; it is imposs to determin in the abstract at what exact point a gang of common crimin becom a revolutionari armi . in practic , prime minist trudeau conclud that with the kidnap of the british diplomat , jame cross , and pierr laport , the quebec liber front ( flq ) had cross the line .
  it is no wonder that mani of the old sourdough made it a practic to break up partnership befor the winter set in , live like hermit until spring mellow the atmospher and made companionship desir again . for those who normal tread at the veri edg of mental disord , the advent of the long dark is the catalyt agent that push them over the line into the realm of insan .
  she turn to confront him , a spark of anger in her eye . " that goe beyond the line of pleas , sir !
  adam was prone to absent himself from capit and cabinet when congress was not in session , tempt his subordin to seek other counsel . but hamilton overstep the line of proprieti , inde of candor .
  as far as i'm concern , if anyon expect me to accept his rule on sex , he must prove that he doesn't have dusti cobweb insid his skull or in his crotch . have said all that , i can almost hear your next question : is there ani place where daddi doe draw the line ?
  at a height of 6 feet , 4 inch and weight of 220 pound , greg cook is cut from the mold that roman gabriel has made fashion for quarterback star . much more handsom than namath , with blond hair swirl mod-styl about his face , greg say , " there a hairlin differ between confid and overconfid and i'm sit right on that line . "
  in fact , the religion of mani simpl peopl are more involv than our own . where we draw the line between superstit and religion , primit man doe not .
  and he favor husband accompani their wive to the hospit , don a white smock , and lend their emot support dure labor . but after that he drew the line .
  " while canterburi stood silent , a kent state functionari stare at lunin and said , " those student shouldn't be on that hill . there has to be a line drawn somewher .
  on some region , in fact , specialist have strong tie to the third market becaus they are free , as big board specialist are not , to shop with third-market firm when tri to buy or sell block . the line between the third market and the other market are blur in other way .
  right now you may be in love with rachael and tri to know the limit of that love . appar the line is drawn short of marriag .
  for what one practition has term " therapi virgin , " howev member with no previous experi of group therapi the marathon is not without it danger . ordinari neurot well within the border of ani definit of saniti often undergo in their daili live state that verg on the psychot ; a marathon may push these person over the line into an actual psychosi .
  here was age inconceiv but not death , for the moon had never live until now . the descend ship was pois almost abov the line divid night from day , and direct below was a chao of jag shadow and brilliant , isol peak catch the first light of the slow lunar dawn .
  from canada come an exampl of this genr , zero the fool , a movi shot , edit and direct by morley markson and in this case , the name and major event don't seem to have been tamper with even slight . kay armatag , a critic for montreal avant-gard bimonth take one , review this final assault on the thin line separ " cinema life " from " real life . "
  okay . most of us have to function somewher below the genius line .
  it sheer presumpt to suppos that the organ orient of matter is ani more live than the inorgan , it sheer human vaniti to imagin the soul is ani more immut than a piec of rock , a pebbl in a penguin nest . draw for me , the ice said , the line between life and not-lif .
  i mere lack the hammer of thigh and hip muscl which normal drive the nail home . the line between me and the youth frolick in the sea with my girl was a thin one , but i couldn't step over it .
  and then , in a quiet voic , almost as though she were talk to herself , as though she had forgotten the exist of the other , annett said : " where will it end ? where will the line be drawn ?
  how is it go to be close again ? who go to draw the line ?
  a somewhat smaller percentag of marri coupl complain that their mothers-in-law are too indiffer and disinterest in them . these repres the two side of a veri narrow line that a mother must walk as soon as her child marri .
  in franc the best athlet have job at which they do littl or no work , in order to permit them to concentr on train . even australia , one of the few nation that still hold a firm line between amateur and profession , send it team to camp for an extend pre-olymp period .
  the front had been brought much closer to shore ; it now lay onli two hour from port , where sky and water met in the west . that was the thin line between war and peac .
  " young ladi , i'm afraid some of your idea need rethink befor you carri them out into the world . " it was a pleasant tough smile on a face itself pleasant tough , despit the blur of line that overweight and the pass year had brought , and shirley answer smile lit up the corner of her person .
  when the servic is over , the famili sit down to a robust meal and a good long chat , for convers remain an essenti part of life in the absenc of such pale substitut as televis . general , howev , work and religion are the twin theme becaus the amish draw no line between work and religion and life .
  i was , in part , terribl discourag , but at the same time excit by the narrow escap from victori . the line between the russian cellist cooper and reject seem so thin .
  in general , childhood phobia are less serious than phobia which develop later in life . it is difficult to draw a fine line between univers fear and common phobia .
  one of the toughest depart troubleshoot . his presenc reflect the sensit line between air forc and state .
  no. she could not prove that mrs. willymor had secret intent , or that her word were fals . the line between recov and has recov was fine .
  equal , on it posit side , reflect the desir of individu to emul the good life as exemplifi by other , to catch up , to improv , to excel , to realiz more fulli their potenti , to develop and express themselv , to contribut , to count ( and be count ) as respons actor in their time . but across a thin line lie the other aspect of the drive for equal .
  one of the most import paint from this find , front face , a portrait of a negro child in a soldier suit , realiz $67,000 at parke-bernet in 1970 . sometim the line between expertis and plain dumb luck is veri thin .
  from here on , either he would sit on his own front porch watch his cattl feed on his hillsid , or he would return to san souci and give himself up . was the line between heaven and hell realli so thin ?
  the definit of alcohol is vagu , and the diagnosi is difficult . it not alway easi to know where to draw the line between a strong depend on alcohol and out-and-out alcohol .
  senat are constant ask to choos between particular region need and nationwid goal , and the good one learn to balanc their loyalit . they walk a fine line in do it . the career diplomat in kabul also had a fine line to walk .
 at that point, mr. keenan said he would again have to check on exact where the share reposed.h made anoth call and came back on the line with the news that the stock was at eppler, guerin & turner, a texa brokerag firm with no offic whatev in utah. 
 a spokesman for the nsa declin to comment on the agenc role in the iran-contra affair.intellig sourc said the encrypt devices, describ as computer-typ keyboard that are connect to ordinari telephon lines, aren't the most sophist such machin develop by the nsa. 
 plessey co. and general electr co. of britain receiv the first big export order, valu at the equival of about $24 million, for their system x digit telephon exchange.plessey said telecom colombia, the nation telecommun author of colombia, is buy 13 of the exchanges, involv a total of 68,000 telephon lines. 
 "addit increas won't be necessari to bring long-dist rate down," he said.th subscriber-lin charge, also call the access charge, make subscrib pay part of the fix cost of the line to home and small busi rather than ad these cost to long-dist service. 
 mr. fowler action appear aim at quell grow congression opposit to ani increase.th subscriber-lin charge, also call the access charge, make subscrib pay part of the fix cost of the line to their home and small busi rather than ad these cost to the cost of long-dist service. 
 the plan, call linkup america, would pay for half the cost of telephon installation, or a maximum of $30; the remaind of the instal charg would be financ over time.in addition, low-incom resid wouldn't be requir to pay subscrib line charges. 
 "i don't look for ani real dramat change," said paul g. sherer, an analyst with robertson, colman & stephens, a san francisco invest concern.mr. sherer said that while equatori market nich is potenti lucrat -- it is the sole supplier of low-spe satellit data communic system for compani which now must depend upon dedic telephon line -- it satellit system still are consid experiment technolog by mani corpor telecommun managers. 
 instead, they use such compani as us sprint communic co. telenet subsidiari and mcdonnel dougla corp. tymnet subsidiary, which charg cut-rat prices.thes compani rent privat telephon line and spread the cost among thousand of comput users. 
 it also will issu $23 million in credit on custom local phone bill in the same period.som 1.3 million custom with 1.6 million telephon line will be affected. 
 but in recent years, some invest bank -- among them morgan stanley & co., goldman, sach & co. and salomon brother inc. -- have becom major currenc trader as well.now the three firms, and perhap others, are appli for direct line to the new york fed. 
 the issu of direct access rais signific polici and possibl legal questions: doe the fed have author to deal with entiti beyond it regulatori control?and if the fed open line with some invest banks, must it then open it door to all non-bank institutions? 
 "telecommun will be a red hot spot for new small-busi ideas," believ jame r. swartz, manag partner of accel partners, a ventur capit firm.on accel investment, general communic corp., has develop telephone-lin switch and transmiss devic which offer multipl use of a singl home telephon line, includ simultan transmiss of voic and pictures. 
 for a month fee of about $12 (plus the price of each call), the answer servic -- actual a "dial service" -- will dial your desir number, call you back and patch you into the call.a red light on the phone indic when one of the servic 20 other custom is use the line. 
 regulators, who have set up a telephon hotlin to help with the transition, said patient can either choos anoth feder qualifi hmo or return to tradit fee-for-servic medicar benefits.a feder complianc offic doubl as an oper on the 800 telephon number said saturday, "we have six lines, and they are never not ringing." 
 such a trade strategi would ordinarili be a prescript for instant losses.but the trader say he was mere follow instruct from his client -- a fed dealer on the other end of a dedic privat telephon line. 
 in atlanta, john l. clendenin, bellsouth chairman and chief executive, said the result "reflect strong growth in both our telephon oper compani and our non-regul subsidiaries."whil also provid no detail of the unregul businesses, he said bellsouth telephon compani unit ad a record 177,000 new access lines. 
 the restrict are exasper for manufacturers, who must contend with huge competit pressur spark by the technolog changes.th standard telephon has given way to a complex electron devic that has the potenti to enabl people, comput and offic machin to communic along the same line at the same time. 
 the world bank and ida also approv $150 million in credit to india for urban develop project in the state of uttar pradesh.morocco will get a $125 million world bank loan to help modern and expand telecommun facilities, includ telephon lines. 
 new product announc yesterday -- a phone system call spirit and an updat merlin system -- are part of a plan to overhaul the unit, said john a. "gus" blanchard, group vice presid in charg of the unit.th unit sell phone and phone switch to busi with fewer than 80 line and was one of sever busi at&t consid abandon last fall. 
 the market for phone system is fair flat and intens competitive; at&t, intern busi machin corp. rolm unit and northern telecom ltd. vie each year for the no. 1 spot and togeth control 60% to 70% of the market, accord to analysts.at&t said it new spirit system, which has been in control introduct in southern california, is design for non-offic busi and, in the larger model, can accommod as mani as 24 line and 48 phones.merlin ii, the larger of the new merlin systems, can accommod as mani as 32 line and 72 phones. 
 that van gogh paint sold for 290,000 time it origin value.th line was quiet. 
 a board of feder and state regul last month vote to increas the subscriber-lin charg by a total of $1.50 by april 1989.the charg make subscrib pay part of the fix cost of the line to home and small busi rather than ad these cost to long-dist service. 
 so for judg schwartzberg, the practic consider of find space for file and peopl to do the file are a top priority."w will have to add more copi machines, more telephon lines, more cleric staff," he said. 
 offici of each airlin said onli that they have held talk with the compani about suppli trintex subscrib with the abil to order airlin ticket use person computers.videotex system distribut interact inform and other services, usual over telephon lines, to user with person computers. 
 while 15 of the 16 largest softwar compani are on the east or west coasts, wordperfect is in utah.when most softwar compani complain about the cost of answer question from users, wordperfect provid a toll-fre line for it custom calls. 
 but multim has slip recent at the same time as the wang system has fallen out of favor.on key to wordperfect growth was it toll-fre help line. 
 one more twist: the yen thus rais were "swapped" into u.s. dollar for deliveri to the canadian government."w had sever telephon conferences, and at the final bidding, we had peopl on the line in ottawa, and our peopl on in toronto, new york, london and on a speakerphon in tokyo," say a manag in the tokyo head office. 
 they do so by call 976-chat in los angeles.for $2 plus toll charges, caller are allow to particip for about two and a half minut in confus convers which altern between effort to figur out who is on the line and the rambl of teen-ag minds. 
 what is this? (a mother voice)-- it a chat line. -- a chat line? 
 in less than a minut i had a list of 33 book that met those criteria; in less than two minut i had a six-pag printout to take with me to the new hanov counti library, which, incidentally, last month replac it microfilm card catalog with comput and cd-rom disks.of course, the bowker system is design primarili for commerci accounts, not for indol research like myself, and as such it has option to allow bookstor and librari to place order electron over the telephon line with major book wholesalers. 
 this, of course, induc long-dist carrier to look for a varieti of other way to reach their customers, includ privat microwav relay and fiber-opt cables.in order to reduc the incent for long-dist compani to bypass the local compani through altern distribut systems, the fcc institut a fix month "subscrib line charge" for residenti and busi subscribers. 
 this charge, impos in june 1985 at $1 a month, is now $2 a month for residenti subscrib and $6 a month for multilin busi customers.th charg is de sign to make subscrib pay for part of the fix cost of the line to their home or busi rather than ad these cost to the cost of long-dist service. 
 anoth hot new market: sophist gear for busi and industry.canon u.s.a. inc. aim at government, the media and real estat with it electron still camera, which doesn't use film and can transmit pictur over telephon lines. 
 commodor is hope sale will come from the boom desktop-publish markets, which is appl domain, as well as more special user in the music, video, and graphics-rel professions.for instance, by use the amiga, advertis agenc could develop full-color stori board and send them over telephon lines. 
 take inform services.adv in technolog sinc the time of the decre mean that comput can more easili communic with each other over telephon line -- that especi import now that there are an estim 12 million home comput in america, apart from the million of offic systems. 
 onli 40 firm current display quot on seaq international, about two-third of it capacity.but mr. nash said there are about a dozen entri request that have been delay by a lack of necessari telephon lines. 
 sell softwar electron has been tri befor without much success, primarili becaus the devic were so limited, say chuck kinch, computerland vice president, products.som units, for instance, distribut softwar by telephon line from a central location, but the process wasn't reliable, mr. kinch says. 
 the ibm announc said the pc convert will now come with a "supertwist" liquid crystal display screen, which use a new technolog to great enhanc readability.ibm also dealt with complaint about the modem, which let comput communic across telephon lines, by offer an option modem that adapt to the industri standard. 
 occasionally, the languag seem formulaic: after comput confirm a rocket "incred precise" trajectories, an air forc general enter his "high secure" office.mo later the secretari of defens speak on a telephon line avail onli to "veri senior administr officials." 
 the state panel confirm an earlier rule that determin the servic to be in the public interest.in addition, it order pacif telesi group inc. pacif bell unit and gte corp. general telephon co. of california unit to continu effort to find an inexpens way to block access to 976 program from their telephon lines. 
 the union leaders, from 24 countries, claim to repres some 26.5 million organ worker around the world.th propos measur includ set up toll-fre telephon line in britain and other countri for ibm employe to contact union organizers, form an intern clear hous for the union to swap inform about ibm, step up recruit advertis and public instanc of what labor leader call ibm "union-busting" actions. 
 us sprint communic co., a long-dist telephon compani own joint by gte corp., stamford, conn., and unit telecommun inc., kansa city, mo., is also expect to enter the competition.th new servic would replac the feder manag network of own and leas equip and leas long-dist telephon line that link 1.3 million govern worker nationwid and handl 300 million call a year. 
 american telephon & telegraph co. said it sign a $92 million contract with the navi to instal a telecommun network link 14 naval facil in the san francisco bay area.th 10-year agreement includ 40,000 telephon lines, in a system that will have capac of 120,000 lines. 
 one of them recal that when col. north found out that defens secretari caspar weinberg object to the plan to forc down an egyptian airlin carri the achill lauro terrorists, he persuad his secur council superior to initi order the white hous oper not to disturb presid reagan with telephon calls.(mr. weinberg and the presid eventu spoke over an unsecur line while mr. reagan was aboard air forc one and mr. weinberg was on anoth aircraft.) 
 mr. rollwagen also said he told seymour cray, the compani founder, about how appl was use the machine."ther was a paus on the other end of the line," mr. rollwagen recalls, "and seymour said, that interesting, becaus i'm design the next cray with an apple.'" 
 at the feder bureau of investigation, agent probe the iran-contra affair are assign "secure" telephon line that can't be bugged. 
 base on rochest close price of $44.75 a share in composit trade yesterday on the new york stock exchange, the transact has a total valu of about $26.3 million.enterprise, which serv about 15,700 access line in a territori between harrisburg, pa., and philadelphia, will becom rochest telephon third telephon oper compani in pennsylvania. 
 but offici close to mr. carlucci said the new nation secur advis is determin to serv as an honest broker between the pentagon, the state department, the cia and other agencies.th offici said mr. carlucci also has been care to secur a direct line to presid reagan, bypass white hous chief of staff donald regan. 
 the commiss vote 5-0 to seek public comment on a plan to "streamline" regul of packet switch network and telecommun servic offer under competit contracts.commerci packet switch servic divid data transmiss into tini digit segment and rout those segment econom over telephon lines. 
 pictur hundr of trader sit or stand at consoles, each with perhap eight or more flash comput screens.pictur each trader with two telephon handsets, connect by direct line to mayb 500 custom and fellow traders. 
 the transact includ j.b.n. independ communic inc. unit, a fairview, kan., provid of communic servic to the defens department, the telecommun concern said.j.b.n. telephon serv 2,500 access line in 13 exchang in north central kansas, contel said. 
 boston -- the call came short after michael janeway resign under pressur as editor of the boston globe.sudden gov. michael dukakis, almost a stranger, was on the line invit him over to the statehouse, and there, alone, the two talk about how much it hurt when a man work hard at a job he love -- and is judg a failure. 
 the compani also want to expand in telecommun to take advantag of the growth in that industry.for example, it is produc and instal a product that enabl util to read custom meter through telephon lines. 
 ibm also boost the 9370 prospect by announc product that will let it attach to a token-r network, which will help it communic with other ibm computers.in addition, ibm announc product that will make it easier to group 9370s, to have a 9370 dial into a central comput through telephon line and to updat a 9370 softwar from a remot location. 
 the result of this bureaucrat obstacl course: new foreign investment, exclud compani alreadi establish in the philippines, reach a meager $712,000 in the first quarter of this year.mani businessmen claim it is more difficult to transact busi now than under mr. marcos, when a direct line to the palace, howev costly, usual assur an investor of offici cooperation. 
 irv trust co., a major player in the foreign exchang market, said it is take a "sabbatical" from interbank deal after it trade desk was "decimated" in a move by a group of dealer to e.f. hutton & co.irv has trade currenc sinc the 1920s and is one of about a dozen u.s. bank with direct trade line to the feder reserve. 
 similarly, at&t blame the breakup of the bell system for lack of certain servic that use a separ signal network within the nation phone system.thi network is use within at&t long-dist line to send the phone number separ from the call itself, enabl at&t to keep from send call to place where line are busy. 
 instead of push hot new fund through perform rankings, compani are now emphas diversification.and with mani investor unabl to get through clog telephon line dure the crash, compani are stress service. 
 abc also is test new market approach for it soaps.it has creat a soap-opera trivia contest on radio and a special 900 telephon line call "soap talk." 
 neither one is practical."gm, he notes, has establish toll-fre complaint lines, and has rewritten it servic bulletin for fifth-grade-level readers. 
 the feder communic commission, which recent eas up on raunchi radio and tv shows, yesterday start crack down on raunchi telephon services.th agenc launch investig into whether two california compani violat the communic act by provid lewd telephon messag without screen the call to see if children were on the line. 
 but with the citi growth as the west coast financi hub and the gateway to the pacif rim, businessmen with expens account have clamor for first-class hotel rooms.guests, who typic shell out $175 to $300 a night for a singl (the price can go up to $3,000 for the ne plus ultra in sybarit surroundings), are be pamper with larger room or suites, real marbl bathroom with television, phone with more than one line, plush robes, exot flower and complimentari wine. 
 at the hospital, nobodi could call in except on the emerg number.lin out were jammed. 
 "they can't," he say flatly.aft decad of scrimp on new equipment, british telecom is stuck with a tired, antiqu phone system that is expens to maintain and prone to cross lines. 
 teradyn inc. said it receiv a $25 million contract from british telecommun plc for it autom test system for subscrib lines. 
 recent join the list of foreign player were austria girozentral vienna and belgium banqu bruxell lambert.richard w. magee, manag director of tullett & tokyo forex inc., a currenc broker, said that in the past year, the compani has instal trade line to about a dozen new branch of foreign banks, most from smaller countries. 
 oper sometim take half an hour to answer the phone.lin mysteri go dead, and repairmen won't fix them unless paid tips. 
 comput scienc also has been "consist late" in provid certain qualiti control products, he said, result in some incorrect payment to provid and incorrect report to the state.and the compani has fail to set up suffici toll-fre telephon line to handl inquiri from providers, he added. 
 in your may 21 stori about the phone industri bill custom for unconnect calls, i was surpris that you did not discuss whether such bill is appropriate.a caller who keep a line open wait for a connect use communic switch and transmiss equip just as if a convers were take place. 
 there is no more reason not to pay for tie up network facil when call go unansw than there is for a refund on gasolin when one drive to a store onli to find that desir merchandis is out of stock.cal anxious to reach parti whose line are busi or unansw can freeli redial until they get through. 
 as the long-dist market becom more competitive, however, price of servic will conform more to the cost of provid those services.if hold a line open while wait for a call to be answer impos costs, eventu a price will be charged. 
 the feder reserv bank of new york said it grant "several" currenc broker direct access to it foreign exchang desk, a privileg previous limit to about a dozen commerci banks.for the time being, the new york fed said, it will use direct line to broker onli to gather market information, and it will continu to deal onli with bank in foreign exchang transactions. 
 "it a step in the right direction," an invest banker said of the move.a fed spokesman said friday that extend line to invest bank is still under consideration. morgan stanley & co., goldman, sach & co. and salomon brother inc. are among the invest bank that have becom major foreign exchang market particip in recent year and seek line to the fed. the fed wouldn't say which or how mani broker it establish link with, but two new york broker identifi themselv as have open line to the fed: noonan, astley & pearc inc. and tullett & tokyo forex inc.for the fed, line to broker provid instantan inform on exchange-r moves.for brokers, as for commerci banks, get a line to the fed bring prestig and at least the appear of have access to the intern work of the often secret central bank.if the fed eventu choos to use broker for it currenc transactions, the line also could deliv sizabl chunk of profit business. 
 the broker combin averag daili trade volum was $25.9 billion, a rise of 84% sinc 1983.broker had been seek line to the fed sinc the 1970s, accord to joe roderick, vice presid at noonan astley.th fed hasn't discuss it deliber about grant line to invest banks. 
 he also said he didn't learn of morgan stanley decis to rescind the trade until his broker call him at about 11:30 edt last night."h said they'd have an explan in the morning, so i won't know until then what we'r go to do," he said while his lawyer held on anoth telephon line. 
 rolm oper in europ are much smaller than those in the u.s.in britain last year, ibm and rolm had less than 3% of the market for larg offic switchboards, privat autom branch exchang handl 100 or more telephon lines, accord to dataquest inc., a san jose, calif.-bas market research firm. 
 but a new breed of investor is go high tech.som carri beeper that alert them to sudden market changes; other rent or buy portabl comput that retriev financial-new wire by telephon line. 
 that becaus not all of those switchboard keep track of whether call are rout long distance, so it would be difficult to add access charg to such calls. he said the agenc would look at way to monitor such call and may propos a flat-rat fee for some privat lines.th fcc current make compani pay $25 a month for certain local line that connect to big compani switchboards, but it feel that the revenu rais from those charg is inadequate. 
 major firm contacted, includ morgan stanley & co., kidder peabodi & co., painewebb inc., goldman sach and salomon brothers, all either deni that they were respons for the buy or declin comment.a news of the ralli in mmi futur reach the new york stock exchang (major firm maintain open line both to their trader in chicago and to specialist in new york), the market got anoth import psycholog boost: the announc of stock buyback by major corporations. 
 it has made organ-donor educ it public cause, and bow to "grow public concern," it begrudg pull out of south africa earlier this year.it set up a special 800 inquiri line for reporters, support a science-journ project and launch a "dow let you do great things" ad campaign.
 a caller in chicago, for instance, could call a chicago compani and get switch to a branch offic in new york without pay the full long-dist rates.to pay for such activity, the fcc now make compani pay $25 a month for certain local line that connect to big compani switchboards. 
 rochest telephon corp. said it sign a letter of intent to acquir c,c&s system inc. for about $25 million in stock.jackson, mich.-bas c,c&s system is a hold compani that oper c,c&s telco inc., a telephon compani that serv 17,000 access line in south-centr michigan, and t-com inc., a page servic that oper in florida, michigan and texas. 
 rochest telephon oper three telephon compani in new york and four in pennsylvania.it compani serv a total of more than 500,000 access lines. 
  more than a week after the market tumbl through the glass into wonderland, the telephon line at rothschild secur corp. still crackl with custom anger and apprehension. 
 it is the feder reserv bank of new york, agent for the u.s. government.and for a moment, mr. scala doesn't see the line light up."when that line come in, you'v got to pick it up quick," mr. remigio chide his partner. 
 a hotlin servic oper by the institut of secur market develop handl complaint from investors.in recent weeks, as mani as one thousand caller a day have clog the line just to "let off steam," say leon hu, presid of the government-sponsor agency. 
 wall street chao spur activ in a $99, simul trade game from wall street game inc., wellesley, mass.with noth real at stake, player still swamp the game toll-fre telephon lines, sell stock short on monday and buy on tuesday and yesterday. 
 but southwestern bell economist note that the sign of a recoveri are center in the manufactur segment and provid a weaker boost to demand for phone servic than doe an econom rebound fuel by servic and construct industries.mr. barn said that in the past 12 months, the phone compani custom line increas onli 38,000. 
 "that is far below our tradit growth rate within our five-st territory," he said.that also sharpli contrast with gain of 176,000 new line by pacif telesi group telephon compani unit dure the third quarter. 
 the sipc is an industry-back organ that provid reimburs to individu custom of fail member firms.meanwhile, some firm weren't answer their trade line yesterday, possibl to avoid sale that would drive price of their proprietari littl issu down even furtheir, trader said. 
 revenu rose 8% to $3.12 billion from $2.89 billion.bellsouth had a record increas of 232,000 new custom line in the quarter.so far this year, it said, it has gain 504,000 new lines, compar with 510,000 for all of 1986. 
 indeed, even enthusiast conced that human oper have a role."if you have a consum complaint line and a comput answer it, that the worst possibl application," say brad wendkos, presid of phoneworks, a hackensack, n.j., firm that design telephon promotions. 
 revenu rose about 1% to $2.33 billion from $2.31 billion.donald e. guinn, chairman and chief execut officer, said the compani pacif bell telephon co. unit ad more than 176,000 new custom line dure the quarter. 
 d.c. staley, chairman, said the result "are within our expectations," although the rate of growth in net incom has been "slow somewhat due to invest and expenditur intend to improv nynex long term financi outlook."th compani had 14.3 million access line in servic at the end of the quarter, up 3.2% from the year earlier period. 
 mr. nakasone, meanwhile, retain the power of consider public popular and control over a sizabl faction within the ldp.his goal is to continu to exert that power and to keep a line open for a repeat session as prime minist in a few years. 
 mari and philip robertson have sent a postcard from itali to their three shih tzus."dear nanky-poo, yum-yum and tu ling," the card says, "we are have a splendid time, but as always, miss you guys." (some client telephon to talk to their dogs, but ms. katz joke tell them that the pet are "on anoth line.") 
 mani mutual fund offer telephon switch privileg where an investor can call to switch out of a stock mutual fund into a money-market fund at the end of that day trading.but sometim a fund telephon line are jammed.when stock price made sharp correct earlier this year, some investor complain they tri unsuccess for three and four day to get through to mutual fund on 800-number telephon lines. 
 these view have been translat into action.when mr. harkin was a member of the house, he was instrument in persuad congress to purchas up-to-d equip that allow hearing-impair peopl to communic by type messag over the telephon lines. 
 at&t recent price decreas have not been shown to result from increas efficiency, deregul or competition.they are larg the result of the fcc effort to shift telephon cost from long-dist carrier to local monopoli compani through increas in subscrib line charg and separ changes. 
 conserv suspect it is actual spend much more.peopl for the american way volunteers, use a dozen telephon line at the group washington headquarters, this week will be urg member in alabama, arizona and pennsylvania to contact sens. 
 mani of those downtown worker who arriv at their offic after the quak were turn away.stor and bank branch in the area didn't open or open late, and telephon line into the los angel area were overload for sever hour follow the quake. 
 so far, os/2 hasn't sold well, main becaus there were no program that tap the oper system snazzi graphic and abil to juggl sever comput task at once.sidekick provid a planner calendar, an autom phonebook, a calculator, a bare-bon word processor, and make it easi for a person comput to connect with other comput through telephon lines. 
 merril execut familiar with the telecommun oper offer a differ view. they said the compani current use a combin of dedic privat line and public line to transmit voice, data and video signals.th use of the line is coordin by an intern technic staff and managers. 
 but judg from their vast differ market methods, the cattl auction might as well be on differ planets.superior livestock auction, which has headquart here and in brush, colo., use a satellit dish, dozen of camera crews, nation distribut catalog and hundr of telephon line and video screen to market steer that never leav the ranch until they are sold. 
 an import challeng face mr. adam is the distress economi of the compani regional-servic territory, which has been hard hit by the drought and energi slump.last year, the compani telephon busi had it poorest annual growth volum for new telephon line sinc the great depression.it instal onli 8,100 new lines. 
 but insid say they believ mr. adam can step up to the challenge.in texas, he stimul new telephon line growth by push advanc product such as integr servic digit network, which combin voice, data and video transmiss over one telephon line.for the third quarter, new telephon line quadrupled, with texa respons for about 62% of the growth.th compani ad 114,866 new line in the quarter. 
 "our comput have been down for 1 1/2 days."th facsimil machine, which can send and reproduc copi of a document over telephon lines, is sudden ubiquitous. 
 the tape-record voic answer the phone tell caller how to enter a contest for a free trip to london, which includ a plug for continent airlines.if you stay on the line, run up an even bigger phone bill, the same voic goe on to advertis the movie, and would have gone on but i'd heard enough. 
 revenu from telephon oper increas 7% to $634.6 million, while long-dist connect servic surg 10.5% to $327.9 million.william l. weiss, ameritech chairman and chief execut officer, said the compani had it "largest telephone-lin increas ever," a 2.5% jump for a total of 371,000 line installed. 
 zane e. barns, southwestern bell chairman and chief execut officer, said he expect the compani cellular properti to be profit by the end of 1989.in new telephon lines, southwestern bell had it best quarter perform sinc 1985.new telephon line quadrupled.th compani ad 114,866 new line in the third quarter, up 88,866 from 26,000 a year earlier. 
 the compani said overal expens in the quarter jump 16% to $2.69 billion from $2.31 billion a year earlier.non-telephon oper and growth in new telephon line help revenu surg 11% to $3.46 billion from $3.11 billion a year earlier. 
 those revenu increas 45% to $757.6 million from $524.1 million, while revenu from long distanc call made within the same area code rose 8% to $427.1 million from $394.6 million.new telephon line continu to grow at a clip of 4.5% annually.th compani ad 216,000 new telephon line in the third quarter for a total of 16.3 million.so far this year, the compani has ad 537,000 lines. 
 profit for five telecommun concern rose in the third quarter, general reflect increas in new custom lines. 
 basic telephon busi revenu increas 2% to $2.47 billion from $2.42 billion, while non-telephon oper revenu slump 17% to $137.3 million, compar with $165.2 million.in the busi segment, new telephon line increas by 7.1% and call volume, reflect in minut of use, rose 11.5%.bell atlant instal 105,000 new telephon lines, both busi and residential, for an increas of 3.2% and a total of $16.3 million. 
 pacif telesi net benefit from gain in it cellular and page business, increas local long-dist use, and new telephon lines.minut of use for local long-dist call jump 8.9%, profit in the cellular and page busi surg 73%, and new telephon line grew 4.2%. 
 revenu from basic telephon servic increas 2.7% to $805 million, while revenu from long distanc call made in the same area code climb 4.6% to $581 million.pacif telesi instal 207,000 new custom lines, a 4.2% increase, for a total of 12.95 million access lines. 
 local servic revenu was flat at about $1.41 billion, compar with $1.40 billion in the year-ago quarter.new custom line grew 3.5% in the third quarter.nynex, base in new york, instal 194,000 access line for a total of $14.8 million. 
 access charg revenu rose 6.7% to $676.3 million from $633.9 million. u s west, base in denver, also had increas in minutes-of-us and new telephon lines.minutes-of-us rose 8.2% to 8.5 million from 7.87 million, while new custom telephon line increas 2.3% to 11.8 million, signal chang in the economy. 
 but, he adds, support cost are high.custom who buy the upgrad averag two call apiec to the compani help lines, the same number as for new customers. 
 that, in turn, should continu to cut the cost of the machin and expand their market.sharp electron corp. and ricoh corp. recent announc fax that use normal paper, rather than the roll of chemic treated, heat-sensit paper most fax use to reproduc document from signal transmit over telephon lines. 
 miss perhap 300 or more of their local pilot fish to follow them and magnifi their trade power, the wall street hous will eventu be ground down by even moder portfolio insur selling, serfl realizes."h still has the german client on the line. 
 they are here," mrs. guba answered.on the tape record of mrs. guba call to the 911 emerg line, play at the trial, the babi sitter is heard beg for an ambulance. 
 local bill for resid and small busi will show an fcc-order 60-cents-a-month increas in charg by local compani begin in december.th so-cal subscrib line charge, current $2.60 a month, reflect part of the cost of connect long-dist compani with local companies. 
 resid averag $15 a month in long-dist charges, accord to jack grubman of painewebb inc.th subscrib line charg is schedul to increas 30 cent in april for resid and small businesses. 
 the feder communic commiss restrict the abil of local telephon compani to charg high price for privat telephon line use in communic networks. 
 in fact, one of the quickest post-crash reform was to instal special phone link between new york, chicago and washington market overseers.thi arrangement, which the big board call the "hoot and holler" line, is meant to make sure that in a crisis, market can be in instant contact without the risk of busi signal or switchboard snafus. 
 record show, for example, that three top soviet laser scientist had access to classifi area of lawrenc livermor nation laboratory, even though they were author to visit onli unclassifi areas, the gao said.in anoth case, an isra scientist bar from classifi area gain access to the laboratori supercomput through the telephon line of a worker at whose home he was staying, the gao said. 
 local phone compani will be restrict by the fcc in charg high price for privat telephon line use in communic networks. 
 caller seem baffl by the change.when investor now get a live voic on the line, say steven norwitz, a vice presid for t. row price associ inc., baltimore, "they'll be saying, what happen to my yield?'" 
 the philadelphia-bas telecommun concern also said it hope this will lead to more contract work as the dutch govern proceed with long-rang plan to modern it telephon system.th dutch network has about six million telephon access lines, make it slight larger than new jersey network, which also serv a dens popul area. 
 however, continu cutback in personnel could further irrit some already-frustr investors.mario maltese, a fidel fund sharehold and the chairman of an audio-visual-system compani in mineola, n.y., say clog line recent caus him to quit seek help from fidel phone repres dure the day. 
 "the alleg are not true and we intend to defend ourselv vigorously."th suits, file in u.s. district court for the southern district of ohio, stem from claim by two fire cincinnati bell employees, who told local newspap that they had been order to illeg tap the telephon line of more than 1,000 cincinnati area residents. 
 the onli reason the former employe report gave for tap the phone was for nation secur concerns.thre of the residents, whose line were alleg tapped, file the suits. 
 in addit to the knight-ridder-tribun and scripps-howard wires, the other major news wire oper by newspap are the new york time news service, and los angel times/washington post news service.ov telephon lines, each servic transmit news stori and featur to subscrib newspapers. 
 "if you can buy and sell with a person computer, you can't be put on hold," say william coppel, a quick & reilli market executive.but michael gianturco, author of "the stock market investor comput guide," note that comput use telephon line to communic with the broker electron systems.and when the telephon line are jammed, he says, a computer trader won't be abl to get through ani better than anyon els tri desper to call a broker, he says. 
 by conserv estimates, at least $20 billion is held in account outsid the country.bank with comfort offic overlook crumbl bueno air street are alway on the line to switzerland. 
 martin l. quinn, the presid of a small market firm in seal beach, calif., say he is tire of broker interrupt his dinner or leav urgent messag on his answer machine."i know it a salesman when they ask, how are you?'" say mr. quinn, who stay on the line onli long enough to hear a brokerag firm name. 
 insid a dark tent, kayitan kavas, a counti commissioner, shout into a telephon for more help.on the other end of the line, a voic promis 8,400 more blankets. 
 he want to discuss a cabinet appoint with vice presid georg bush, and, think mr. bush was nearby, ask the switchboard to get him.soon, the vice presid was on the line. 
 by comparison, it is usual pretti easi to track down white hous and administr aides.top staffer have direct telephon line to the white hous instal in their homes. 
 "that was my fault," say a chasten mr. griscom.gener of white hous aid confess an attach to the disembodi voic on the other end of the telephon line -- voic that, among other small favors, give wake-up call to staffer go on trips. 
 mr. mcpherson and arm negoti paul warnk both rememb what happen when presid johnson tri to reach mr. warnk to offer him a pentagon promotion.th presid talk for five minut befor realiz that the man on the other end of the line was john carl warnecke, the architect. 
 mr. duggan, the former lbj aide, onc ask the switchboard to find a long-lost girlfriend in new york."forty-f minut later, they had her on the line," he recalls. 
 but now, even the libertin french are crack down.french entrepreneur dish out pretti much the same fare that their u.s. counterpart provide: "gab" line that dozen of peopl can dial to convers in languag as off-color as strike their fancy; privat line for one-on-on dirti talking; and prerecord sex chatter. 
 the french also offer someth not avail in the u.s. -- the pink minitel, which allow custom to send dirti messag to one anoth through video terminals, call minitels, that are attach to million of french phones.a in the u.s., the gab line have been a big money-maker. 
 but, wherea in the u.s. they are extrem difficult to regulate, in franc they are be banned.fr telecom, the nation telecommun authority, announc last month it will abolish the gab line as of october."w realiz that everi one of the chat line was pink {pornographic}," say a franc telecom official. 
 he brush asid protest from pink-telephon servic that the action restrict free speech."ther isn't ani law that say we have to provid chat lines," the offici says.h estim that the gab line were bring their oper at least 100 million french franc ($15.6 million) a year.despit the ban, french offici say their crackdown on other form of dial-a-porn is limit by the same legal void that exist in the u.s. noth in french law restrict what two individu can say over a telephon line.unless somebodi involv can be judg guilti of "incit debauchery," the onli way to prevent pornograph servic is to close down an entir categori of them -- as franc has done with the gab lines. 
 the new system has alreadi irk power senators.earli this year, they discov that they couldn't get more than one person on the line at the same time when senat leader call presid reagan to tell him that the histor intermedi nuclear forc treati had been approved. 
 someon identifi himself as a secur offic phone the newsroom say he intend to kill the editor.obscen shout often burst on the line in the middl of phone calls. 
 but news of the trade had fan flood the phone circuit at the king box offic here, hungri for season tickets.meanwhil in edmonton, the line were jam with disgruntl fan steam over the defect of their star player. 
 the bill are actual quit similar.both would requir airlin to report far more perform data than they do now and to set up toll-fre complaint lines. 
 chanc are, the hotel oper will just let the phone in the empti room ring and ring.eventually, the oper may pick up the line, but mani don't, forc peopl to call back. 
 "if there a loophol in your tariff you can leav it to this compani to find it -- quickly," say rose llauget, an execut at gte florida inc., which run the tampa-area phone service.megaquest, meanwhile, argu that phone compani are keeper of a public utility, and shouldn't be allow to censor what goe out over the lines. 
 they can also choos from a varieti of tape by push a number on the phone. ("press 1 for the sexiest love kitten in new york. . . .for the pain and humili you deserve, you gotta push 6. . . .") or caller can choos a one-on-on line like the c-line, which recent end it run in houston amid grow public pressure. 
 megaquest is also a big player in the clean side of the dial-it market, such as tape jokes.but it biggest busi is in the industri hottest and most controversi new area: the "gab" line, a servic that dozen of peopl can dial at onc to talk to one another.gab line bring in about 70% of megaquest revenue.about three-fourth of all the 400-odd gab line in the u.s. today are megaquest's, mr. eisenberg says. 
 they are easili the most slipperi dial-it servic to regulate.cal on a gab line are just talk to one anoth on the telephone, someth the phone compani and the govern can't veri well prohibit.megaquest love to talk about the support gab line offer the shi and the lonely, as it did in a recent case in alabama."mani peopl in birmingham are shut-ins, peopl who becaus of a handicap, ill or old age, cannot get out of their home frequently," the compani argu in a file befor the alabama public servic commission, after south central bell tri to stop bill for it lines. 
 "through group conferencing, these peopl can interact with other member of the community."ms. superfon say a sooth megaquest oper on a fresno, calif., gab line onc talk a derang vietnam veteran out of kill himself.actually, it hard to imagin the age or the suicid get much comfort from mani of megaquest gab lines. 
 "welcom to the onli x-rat parti line in town!" blare a tape that caller hear on one line befor the gab begins."for a steami sexual encount you'll never forget, call . . . !" anoth gab line call itself "the hot centerfold line" and refer caller to anoth number where they can "teach an inexperienc ladi about the bird and the bees!" 
 like other gab-lin proprietors, megaquest hire oper to monitor callers.that is ostens to keep disrupt peopl off the lines, and to enforc the ground rule of it special teen service: no caller over 17, no curs and no talk about drug or sex. 
 not surprisingly, the rule are loos enforced.on one recent afternoon on the new york teen line, a caller could hear toni and robert scream obscen at each other in an argument about their virility. 
 one import role monitor play is to juic up convers whenev they lag.th monitor on megaquest bisexu line recent got the convers roll by discuss the relat merit of differ gender combinations. 
 anoth job for the monitor is steer custom to megaquest out-and-out porn services.on wall poster in the new york offic list a special number and adds: "the most import line! 
 that a number megaquest use for various extra-pricey, hard-cor porn services.thi side of the gab line is one you won't learn about in megaquest file with the public-servic commission. 
 to a lot of parents, what megaquest doe is turn their telephon into raunchy, high-pric jukeboxes.cincinnati bell start run gab line last year and was stun to see custom complaint double. 
 but lawmak and the industri are find that write dial-it regul that stand up to scrutini is as hard as nail jell-o to the wall.phon companies, as regul common carriers, can't alway simpli stop do busi with line they deem offensive.southwestern bell tri to quit bill for gab line by argu that the state rule author it dial-it servic cover tape messages, not live talk. 
 "sex sells," he says.th public firestorm has made him a littl hesit about launch expens new x-rat lines. 
 busi at southwestern bell corp. near hit rock bottom last year.oper in the depress oil patch of oklahoma and texa and the hardscrabbl farm state of arkansas, kansa and missouri, the compani post it poorest telephone-lin growth sinc the great depression: fewer than 8,200 new residenti line and an actual reduct of busi lines. 
 so far, the techniqu is working.sinc january, southwestern bell has sold about 16,000 new line to current busi custom by introduc them to various featur of integr servic digit network, such as "inspect," which display the name and telephon number of the parti calling. 
 sinc january, southwestern bell has sold about 16,000 new line to current busi custom by introduc them to various featur of integr servic digit network, such as "inspect," which display the name and telephon number of the parti calling.impress by what they learn in the lab, tenneco inc., shell oil co. and minnesota mine & manufactur co. each bought more than 3,000 new lines.for instance, the laboratori experi help houston-bas tenneco to decid to buy 3,900 more line for an advanc network that integr voic and data traffic. 
 the direct must be design as care as the product itself, more compani are finding.for instance, prodigi servic co., a joint ventur of intern busi machin corp. and sears, roebuck & co., work for three year to develop it system for shop and retriev inform from a home comput over telephon lines. 
 twelv air-traff "flow control" center in europ coordin these crisis-control action by telex or telephone.flowcontrol unit in london, paris, madrid, rome and frankfurt, west germany, soon will be link with special teleconfer circuit so they won't have to reli on telephon lines, which often are busy. 
 he say further that he hasn't been paid for some of his work.th west palm beach and new york telephon line of millionair publisher, dougla lambert, have been disconnected. . . . 
 san francisco-bas pacif telesi said a robust california economy, streamlin oper and curb on expens were the key factor for it profit gain.busi and residenti line increas 4% to 12.7 million, up 488,000 from a year ago. 
 the compani cincinnati bell inform system unit contribut $38.2 million to revenu in the quarter and $73.8 million in the six months.th cincinnati-bas telecommun concern said it ad about 8,234 new line in the quarter, boost the total to about 755,000. 
 philadelphia-bas bell atlant said it second-quart earn increas was bolster primarili by econom expans in the mid-atlant region.for instance, busi telephon line jump 6.8% to five million from 4.7 million.th total number of new line grew 3.4% to 16.2 million, compar with 15.7 million a year ago. 
 nynex said telephon oper remain strong.th compani said it ad more than 479,000 telephon line in the quarter, boost the total to 14.6 million. 
 region long-dist revenu increas 13% to $345.3 million from $305.2 million.new telephon line grew 2.5% to 11.7 million from 11.4 million. 
 the new york state public employe feder in albani win three pilot evening-shift day-car center in a yet-to-be-ratifi pact.latchkey kid place so mani call to whirlpool corp. consum inform line appeal for help with applianc that the compani conduct a survey, which found big use of applianc among school-ag kid home alone. 
 two region bell telecommun concern post higher second-quart earnings, bolster primarili by strong growth of telephon access lines, while a third bell compani report a decrease. 
 earn for chicago-bas ameritech soared, aid primarili by strong growth in telephon and cellular line and a one-tim gain from the sale of canadian cellular operations. 
 the compani post a $42.1 million gain from the sale of it 17% interest in cantel, a canadian cellular company.busi and residenti telephon line increas 2.4% to 15.2 million, up 354,000 from a year ago.cellular-mobil line grew 58% to more than 100,000. 
 total oper expens increas 15% in the quarter, primarili becaus of cost relat to the elimin of silver page oper and increas telephon compani expenditures.th compani said more than 83,000 telephon access line were ad in the 1988 second quarter, compar with onli 5,000 for the like period last year. 
 bellsouth, base in atlanta, said earn rose becaus of increas in new custom line and toll usage. 
 revenu climb 6.3% to $3.21 billion from $3.02 billion.th compani said it ad more than 133,500 access line in it nine-st territory, boost the total to about 16 million. 
 so the compani southern bell unit in atlanta and it south central bell unit in new orlean have been instal hundr of mile of fiber optic cable; prepar link from insid the convent center to satellit relay truck that will be park outside; instal public phone with special jack to accommod data transmiss on laptop computers; and put in new cell to handl the hundr of cellular phone that mani news organ plan to bring.southern bell has been furious instal about 3,600 line at the world congress center in atlanta for the democrat convent start today. 
 call on one line is a campaign aid deep into negoti with the jess jackson campaign over the rule for the 1992 presidenti election.on anoth line is robert strauss, the former democrat chairman. 
 after his success in advertising, mr. ezo look to diversify.when recruit began rent communic line to tie it nationwid comput together, it discov it could sell time on those lines. 
 john e. hulse, vice chairman and chief financi officer, predict that network usag for the pacif bell and nevada bell unit will increas about 7% to 10% this year.h said the number of new custom line is expect to grow about 3% to 5%.in 1987, the two telephon oper combin had $2.14 billion in network-usag revenu and they ad about 462,000 custom lines, a 3.8% gain. 
 currently, new york-bas at&t leas more convent consum phone at $2.70 to $8.85 a month.th telecommun compani ad it will begin leas three other special models, includ one with two lines, in august. 
 in the past week, he also has field call from report around the world.last friday, an associ of new york televis person geraldo rivera was on the line, ask mr. finckl to appear as his talk-show guest. 
 an even tougher problem is the distress economi of the compani region servic territory, hit hard by the energi slump and the drought.last year, the compani core telephon busi ad onli 8,100 new access lines, the poorest annual growth volum sinc the great depression. 
 the u.s. will maintain diplomat relat with haiti militari govern follow a coup monday that return militari leader namphi to power after four month of civilian rule, the state depart said.schools, market and busi in port-au-princ were reopened, and intern telephon line were restored. 
 the inform age has been put on hold.bi now, consum nationwid could have been take advantag of all kind of special servic through their telephon line -- check airlin schedul or basebal scores, track price of their favorit stocks, arrang to watch pay-for-view movi on their tv sets. 
 the declin in first-quart profit reflect a shift in northern canadian product to less profit wire and cabl product dure a four-week strike in march at it main canadian plant in bramalea, ontario, where telephon switch are produced.central-offic switches, which account for 53% of northern revenu last year, are use by telephon compani to rout voic and data communic over telephon lines.mr. fitzgerald said he expect that sale of switches, as measur by new telephon lines, "are go to flatten out" dure the next few years, and that increas competit in north america will continu to drive down prices. 
 the five-year, profit-shar ventur will provid u.s. news organizations, busi and other user with direct telephon communic and digit transmiss of data, photo and other inform to and from the soviet union.on 11 dedic telephon communic line current exist between the two countries, compani offici said. 
 her question: how can she rais a child on a $1.75 refund check?then there is the girl who ran up a $600 telephon bill dial toll-cal parti lines. 
 advanc micro devic inc., sunnyvale, calif., and siemen ag of west germani said they agre to joint develop, manufactur and market microchip for data communic and telecommun with an emphasi on the integr servic digit network.th integr servic digit network, or isdn, is an intern standard use to transmit voice, data, graphic and video imag over telephon lines. 
 atlanta-bas bellsouth recent gave the parti line a new function and renam it ring master. atlanta-bas bellsouth recent gave the parti line a new function and renam it ring master.th servic allow a residenti custom to have as mani as three telephon number fed into the home through the exist singl telephon line. 
 and, as in the good old days, peopl will be abl to listen in on convers from other extens -- but onli within the same household.whil ani one of the line is in use, neither incom nor outgo call can be made on the other extens that are part of the service.r master cost about $4 a month for one addit number, and bellsouth will promot it as an inexpens altern to separ lines, for which the month fee total $12 to $20, depend on geograph location. 
 dial-a-porn has been a point of content for sever years.anti-pornographi group and parent have fought vigor to keep sexual explicit messag off the telephon line becaus children could easili call the services. 
 execut instal high-tech equip in hous to eas take-hom chores.bert robert jr., presid of mci communic corp., has two computers, three telephon line and a copi machin to handl the work he bring home at night and on weekends. 
 japan want to block competit foreign technolog from a lucrat telecommun market, u.s. trade negoti said.th negoti said they learn in trade talk with the japanes this week that japan ministri of post and telecommun want to limit technolog use in value-ad networks, or van -- servic that allow comput to communic with one anoth over telephon lines. 
 that busi is far and away the compani fastest-grow and most profit segment.th inform line, which includ everyth from refer book such as who who to trade guid for lawyer and health-car professionals, has grown to $229 million in sale in 1987 from $146 million in 1985. 
 one of nasdaq technolog innov -- it trans-pacif link with singapor -- went on the blink, and some trader half-jok grous that volum might have been slight stronger otherwise.nasdaq said the link with sesdaq (stock exchang of singapor deal and autom quotat system) was suspend yesterday morn becaus of line problem in the u.s. introduc in march, the link allow nasdaq and sesdaq to exchang quot on about 35 nasdaq secur trade in both markets. 
 for kodak, the trade-in alreadi has been a cost public relat headache.it has spent an estim $17 million, much of it for a toll-fre line it has kept open for two year and for a varieti of earli notic it sent to camera holders. 
 precis term weren't disclosed.lakewood, which serv 1,275 access line in a 25-square-mil territori in eastern pennsylvania, had revenu last year of about $750,000.lakewood will becom the fifth pennsylvania telephon compani purchas by rochester, n.y.-bas rochest telephone, give it a total of 26,000 access line serv throughout the state. 
 sinc then, they have amend their misguid messag and bombard the market with new advertisements.now, at the end of each commercial, pacif telesi tell viewers, "we'r in the busi to move inform and keep it move over telephon lines, over cellular systems, over comput network we design." 
 the technolog exist so that the dial-a-someth servic -- dial-a-porn, dial-a-preacher, dial-an-oddsmak -- can be regul by the phone compani or by the phone owner.with some technology, a phone compani could simpli block a resid line at his request so that no one could make those dial-it number from his house. 
 almost all would agre that kid shouldn't be run up phone bill by dial dirti talkers; it bad for the parent wallet and probabl bad for the child mind.but the argument can't be made that adult shouldn't be abl to call these smut line if they want to. 
 pacif telesi group said it first-quart earn surged, bolster primarili by the strong california economy, streamlin oper and it earli retir program.san francisco-bas pacif telesi said access line increas 3.7% to 12.6 million and local-long distanc volum jump 9.3% to 684 million. 
 the communic compani also built a small call-switch room in home shop build and beef up part of it own network to handl the addit traffic.from mci lines, traffic is switch to a rockwel intern corp. automat call distributor; the system also use unisi corp. order equipment. 
 collect calls: two-third of the major compani survey by recruit korn/ferri intern say they pay outsid director an averag of $712 for each telephon confer in which they participate.and the vast major get the full fee no matter how long they'r on the line. 
 the plaintiff, unit missouri bank of kansa city, alleg that kemper mismanag $8 million in pension fund right befor the market debacl in october.in general, some holder of stock fund complain after the crash that they couldn't get through clog telephon line or that fund compani fail to honor their redempt request in a time fashion. 
 southwestern bell provid telephon servic to the hard-hit oil state of oklahoma and texas, as well as to arkansas, kansa and missouri, which have felt some of the econom pressur of the farm belt.last year the compani gain onli 8,100 new telephon lines, the worst year for growth sinc the great depression. 
 annual revenu of general interest dial-up servic total about $186 million, estim inform industri bulletin, a stamford, conn., industri newsletter.that compar with dial-a-porn revenu of $54 million and revenu of about $90 million from so-cal gab lines, where custom call up and chat with other who are on the line.gab line have a reput onli slight better than dial-a-porn among some parent becaus teen-ag run up steep phone bill talk for hours. 
 independ of congress, sever local phone compani alreadi are introduc plan to block call to porn and gab line becaus of complaint by subscribers.bel atlant corp. plan to block all porn and gab line in pennsylvania and maryland.custom there that want to dial these servic would have to write the phone compani to unblock the lines. 
 some democrat lawmak want to make these plan mandatori -- and free.accord to sever plan under consideration, phone compani would be requir to assign differ phone number exchang to dial-a-porn services, gab line and general dial-up services. 
 behind a glass window sit the moderator.h is about to get a report from washington when the telephon line dies. 
 there was no response.later, when we phone again, the line was disconnected." 
 telephon line are about to get busier. 
 "am i the toughest guy you know?"th friend on the other end of the line can be heard saying, "you'r tough all right. 
 some of mr. abboud advis had alreadi left for houston to begin pore over first citi books, but the bank concern chairman and president, daniel c. arnold, was on the phone and was balking. on anoth line was first citi invest banker, goldman sach & co. on the third line, advis to mr. abboud.and on the fourth line, offici from the fdic. 
 merril lynch declin to comment.most of those affect by fidel latest layoff work on the invest group toll-fre telephon lines, in back-offic process job and in fidel discount brokerage. 
 the party-lin effect could defeat that.offici of telact say if line get jam there is a built-in queu function to call a custom to the phone when it his or her turn to shop. 
 there, he work at a formica desk stack high with newspap and mail in an open new york newsroom with a dozen other people.h has two phone that seldom stop ringing, plus a line for his best sourc -- a network of traders, raider and sundri other tipsters. 
 but he doesn't apolog for the idea, becaus zapmail was an effort to address a real and continu problem.facsimil machines, which transmit document over telephon lines, are eat into feder overnight business. 
 at&t later develop a form of pictur phone for busi meetings, but it was too cumbersom and cost for consumers.now mitsubishi electr corp. of japan has begun sell visitel, a telephon accessori that use a built-in camera to send still pictur over ordinari lines.th user sit in front of the camera, frame a pictur on a small video screen, and press a button to send it, about five or six second later, to the visitel on the other end of the line. 
 meanwhile, expens climb 12.2% to $2.49 billion from $2.22 billion.th compani said more than 185,000 new access line were ad in it nine-st territory, boost the total to more than 15.9 million. 
 philadelphia-bas bell atlant earn increas as intrast toll use grew 11.2% and interst access volum climb almost 13%.the compani said total access line grew 3.5% to 16.1 million. 
 if a product trigger a flood of calls, she can soften her present or spread it out a few more minutes."we'v even had situat where we'v told the audience, don't call now becaus the line will be busi for a while, " say jerri troupe, execut assist to home shop network inc. chairman, roy speer. 
 toward that end, mr. gibb has increas by 21% to 253 the number of so-cal problem-resolut offic and their assistants, who interven in taxpay disput with the agency.h has hire more clerk to handl telephon inquiries, increas the number of incom telephon lines, and expand the hour the public can call for assistance. 
 ameritech outlook is base on expect for steadi econom growth in the midwest-great lake region, a dens popul and general stabl area.mr. springer predict that combin network usag for ameritech five bell oper compani will increas this year "in the upper end of the 4% to 8% range" and the number of custom line will grow by "better than 1-plus per cent."in 1987, total network access usag grew about 10.5% and ameritech ad about 340,000 custom lines, a 2.3% gain. 
 most dial-up servic charg about 50 cent a minute, but dial-a-porn messag can run a few dollar for the first minute.independ of congress, sever local phone compani alreadi are introduc plan to block call to porn and gab line becaus of complaint by subscribers. bell atlant corp. plan to block all porn and gab line in pennsylvania and maryland. custom there that want to dial these servic would have to write the phone compani to unblock the lines.pacif bell, a unit of pacif telesi group, let consum block call for free to all 976 dial-up services, and soon plan to give consum the option of just block call to adult messag or gab lines. 
 so far 450,000 subscrib have sign up for the 976 block service.new york telephone, a part of nynex corp., plan to offer -- for a one-tim charg of $5 -- call block to dial-a-porn and chat lines. 
 previously, the fed lack the effect of the west german bundesbank or bank of japan, they add.a currenc dealer at a new york bank with a direct line to the fed say that previously, "when the fed would come in, the dollar would almost alway go against them. 
 by contrast, bellsouth corp., which oper in the robust sun belt, ad more than 650,000 new line last year.in 1988, with the health of it servic territori show slight sign of improvement, southwestern bell expect telephon line to increas about 1%, which would repres about 100,000 new lines. 
 met with outrage, the plan was hastili abandoned.oth innovations, such as bank at home via person comput and telephon lines, have been pain slow to catch on. 
 analyst said the two-year contract probabl make the swedish telecommun group the lead supplier of telecommun equip to china.ericsson alreadi has instal or taken order for about 442,000 line in china, and has a few smaller order to suppli switch equipment. 
 term weren't disclosed.telefonica nacion had oper revenu equival to $5.3 billion last year; it has 10 million line in service, with 15 million telephon in use, make spain system the ninth-largest in the world. 
 the program was prove so popular that h&r block appar couldn't keep up with prepar all the returns.consequently, the spokesman at the kansa city, mo.-bas compani said, comput capac has been increas 50%, more telephon line have been ad and addit worker hire to handl the backlog of custom seek to file electronically. 
 instead of hire teller and account offic to take deposit in the office, they advertis deposit rate in region newspapers.custom call on toll-fre telephon line and conduct transact by mail, by wire or through an automated-tel network share with other banks. 
 mr. allbach say he is begin to suspect that kodak instig the suit, hope everyon will pitch their cameras.kodak deni that and say the delay is cost it a bundl in legal expenses, not to mention the cost of maintain an 800 telephon line for instant camera owners. 
 separately, a feder appeal court in new york dealt the dial-a-porn busi anoth setback, affirm long-contest regul that make it harder to dial raunchi phone tapes.th two develop are the latest shot in a bitter battl over dial-a-porn, which is becom widespread both on at&t and local phone-compani lines. 
 telephon were busier than usual at fidel invest over the weekend -- but far less busi than the weekend that preced octob black monday.fidelity, the nation largest mutual-fund group, estim that it receiv about 45,000 call -- 28% more than usual -- on it 24-hour custom servic line dure the weekend in the wake of friday 140.58-point drop in the dow jone industri average. 
 find him becam an obsess for mr. stoll.h made a midnight requisit of all the printer he could lay hand on so that he could monitor all the telephon line come into the lab computers.aft discov that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitim user name joe sventek, he rig up an alarm system, includ a portabl beeper, to alert him when sventek came on the line. 
 current a $300 million-a-year business, 900 telephon servic is expect to hit $500 million next year and near $2 billion by 1992 as use for the servic continu to expand, say joel gross of donaldson, lufkin & jenrett inc.th servic -- which cost the caller from 30 cent to $25 a minut -- current is domin by celebr chatter, horoscop and romanc lines. 
 richard breeden hadn't notic that his new desk had just four telephon line and one phone. 
 it was, after all, onli his second full day as chairman of the secur and exchang commission. but the lack of line becam pain apparent.a the stock market lurch into a 190-point free fall on oct. 13, mr. breeden found himself scurri around the sixth floor of the sec -- from his desk, where the new york stock exchang was on an open line, to his assist office, where the commod futur trade commiss was connected, to a third room, where a comput monitor market moves. 
 it won't happen again.now there are more line connect to the chairman office, and the market-monitor comput has been move next to his desk. 
 rochest will exchang share of it common stock for all share outstand of viroqua telephone, a family-own company.viroqua serv about 3,000 access line in western wisconsin. 
 place a phone order through most ani catalog and chanc are the clerk who answer won't be the onli one on the line. 
 meanwhile, support of the dellum two-parti consent bill say it is need becaus of a giant loophol in the one-parti consent law.currently, if the person tape is a parti to the conversation, it all right to record without the knowledg of the other person on the line. (intercept other peopl privat convers is illeg and punish by five year in prison and fine of $10,000.) 
 overal they increas 2.8% to 12.1 million, put u s west over the 12 million mark for the first time.busi line increas 3.7% to 3.3 million. 
 the three-month-old strike at nynex serious hurt the instal of new telephon line in the quarter.nynex said access line in servic at the end of the quarter were off 18,000 from the previous quarter, which report an increas of 160,000 new access lines. 
 meanwhile, the fema announc a toll-fre telephon number (800-462-9029) to expedit servic to victim of the earthquake.lin will be avail 24 hour a day to take applic for such disast relief as temporari hous and emerg home repair by phone. 
 contel corp. said third-quart net incom increas 16% to $72 million, or 45 cent a share, from $62 million, or 39 cent a share, as a result of strong growth in telephone-access line and long-dist minut of use. 
 inform system post a loss of $8 million, compar with a loss of $9 million a year earlier.customer-access line increas at an annual rate of about 4% and minut of long-dist use rose about 12%. 
 revenu rose 8.8% to $4.35 billion from $4.0 billion.th compani said the quarter includ a 10% increas in local-exchang usag for long-dist call and a 5% increas in the number of access line in service. 
 chairman zane e. barn said southwestern bell "busi are healthi and are continu to grow."th compani report a 3.1% increas in the number of access line in service, and also said it southwestern bell mobil system unit ad 30,000 new customers, with a current total of about 333,000. 
 in composit trade on the new york stock exchange, cincinnati bell fell 25 cent to $29.the compani said that the number of access line drop slight in the quarter, a declin attribut to season fluctuations.for the year, however, access line in servic have increas 5.5%. 
 although two babi bell show strong growth in access lines, usag and unregul busi revenue, one report a modest gain in third-quart net while the other post a small drop. 
 bellsouthat bellsouth, base in atlanta, custom access line grew by 162,000, or 3.5%, dure the 12-month period end sept. 30. 
 in addition, earn were reduc by rate reduct in florida, kentucky, alabama, tennesse and louisiana.ameritech at ameritech, base in chicago, custom access line increas by 402,000, or 2.6%, and cellular mobil line increas by 80,000, or 62.3%, for the 12-month period end sept. 30. 
 the use of 900 toll number has been expand rapid in recent years.for a while, high-cost pornographi line and servic that tempt children to dial (and redial) movi or music inform earn the servic a somewhat sleazi image, but new legal restrict are aim at trim excesses. 
 kurt sanger, abc sport market director, say that now "ten of thousands" of fan call it 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return, quarterback sack, etc.profit from the call goe to charity, but abc sport also use the call as a sale tool: after thank caller for voting, frank gifford offer a footbal videotap for $19.95, and 5% of caller stay on the line to order it. 
 jacket may be sold next.meanwhile, nbc sport recent began "score plus," a year-round, 24-hour 900 line provid a complex array of scores, analysi and fan news. 
 viewer can call a 900 number for addit advice, which will be tailor to their need base on the number they punch ("press one if you'r pregnant," etc.).if the caller stay on the line and leav a name and address for the sponsor, coupon and a newslett will be mailed, and the sponsor will be abl to gather a list of desir potenti customers. 
 the biggest flurri of investor activ came earli in the day.vanguard group inc. saw heavi exchang from stock fund into money market fund after the telephon line open at 8:30 a.m. 
 but analyst say that on short flights, if mani passeng pick up their phone at once, the wait for a dial tone could be longer than the flight.an america west airlin spokeswoman concedes, "you might have to wait three to five minut to get a line." 
 the new york plan froze basic rates, offer no protect to nynex against an econom downturn that sharpli cut demand and didn't offer flexibl pricing.in contrast, the california economi is booming, with 4.5% access line growth in the past year. 
 communic would be even wors in the old downtown section of the city, where gen. noriega maintain his militari headquart complex.cia offici hadn't provid maj. giroldi or his alli with ani mean to communic with the southern command, nor did they arrang to keep a telephon line open to gen. noriega headquarters. 
 so, after rebel appar had seiz the building, sever u.s. offici attempt in vain to contact them by phone to determin what had becom of gen. noriega.som of their outgo call were interrupt by their own switchboard operators, who chastis the offici for use line they had been order to keep free. 
 st. croix telephon would be the fourth telephon concern in wisconsin -- and the tenth in the midwest -- acquir by rochest telephon in the past year.st. croix telephon serv 5,300 access line near minneapolis.rochest telephon serv 575,000 access lines, primarili in western-centr new york. 
 "consolid expens will be higher than anticip as a result of certain nonrecur expenses, includ legal fees," the compani said, ad also that revenu has been below it projections.in the past year, rochest telephone, which serv more than 570,000 lines, main in western-centr new york, has acquir or announc agreement to acquir nine midwestern telephon compani -- five in illinois, three in wisconsin and one in indiana. 
 ebaugh, the show creator."earthbeat's" activ will be reflect in it use of telephon line to record viewer opinion on issu and perhap invit them to add their name to "electron petitions" to be sent to politician or corporations. 
 for instance, the technolog isn't sophist enough to recogn unusu accents.moreover, some peopl still don't like talk to a machine, forc them to stay on the line until a human oper eventu pick up the call. 
 it 10 million peopl are burden with an $18 billion debt, stuck with a defunct infrastructur and a technolog untrain work force.in budapest offices, secretari often work in group to make a singl call on one of the countri huge, pea-green telephon "machines," which have plenti of lever and flash light but a poor record of find a free line. 
 now, field repres drop by each store everi few days, clipboard in hand, to evalu customer-ori operations.also, to make sure that custom have a direct line to the company, burger king is instal a toll-fre phone number for consum feedback. 
 barri k. davis, the founder of trader & investor alert, a telephon stock-tip line, is expect to disassoci himself from the servic within a few weeks. 
 it declin to disclos the number of share involved.mt. pulaski telephone, which would be rochest telephon fifth illinoi telephon concern, serv about 1,800 line in central illinois. 
 despit the name, mt. pulaski no longer has electr customers, rochest said.rochest telephone, which serv more than 570,000 lines, main in western-centr new york state, has acquir or announc agreement to acquir eight midwestern telephon compani this year -- five in illinois, two in wisconsin and one in indiana. 
 a previous increas occur last may, when the san francisco aid foundat issu a strong plea for peopl to consid earli test and treatment.in new york citi last week, "eight to 14 telephon line were ring at once, in contrast to the usual four to five," said susan rosenthal, director of aid counsel and test for seven citi test sites. 
 pacif telecom, vancouver, wash., also has agre to retain for five year all current employe of the citi telephon compani and to refrain from request new rate increas in that period.in april, anchorag request bid on it telephon system, set a minimum price of $400 million for it 115,000 lines. 
 secur regul are investig a new jersey-bas telephon tip line that has been get attent for it blend of "inside" wall street research, gossip and invest advice.th tip line, trader & investor alert, base in fort lee, n.j., is run by a 46-year-old former insur broker and publicist, barri k. davis, who has run afoul of regul in the past. 
 critic say it could be a vehicl for stock manipulators.oddly, mani of the peopl that seem to be call the tip line are wall street brokers, hungri for stock tip they say aren't avail from their own research departments. 
 "we have put trader & investor on notic that they appear to be oper as an unregist invest adviser," say richard barry, supervisor of enforc with the new jersey agency.meanwhile, the sec, which is awar of the trader & investor line and the grow attent be given to it, declin to comment on whether it investigating. 
 in contrast, pacif telesi has won back mani private-lin and centrex custom sinc it gain the right to reduc rates.california boom economi help give pacif telesi the highest second-quart growth in access line among the babi bells. 
 prospect for modern jiangsu antiqu telephon system also have dimmed.th provinc popul of 61 million surpass that of france, but jiangsu phone system can handl onli 50,000 lines. 
 american express co. and american telephon & telegraph co. have form a partnership to expand in interact telephon marketing.th new company, call interactive, will use the telephon line for an array of sale and market-research services. 
 the acquisit of six other compani are pending, with complet schedul befor year end.rochest telephon expect to serv more than 600,000 access line in six state when the acquisit are completed. 
 caller are invit to play interact game with the movi characters, to enter sweepstak and, of course, to run, don't walk, to the nearest theater.tol telephon servic have most been the stuff of pornographi line and of children horror-stori and santa claus lines.but movi market hope they can use the line to entic potenti moviegoers, especi teen-ag and young adults. 
 even better from the market point of view: the call cost money, so market can break even or even turn a profit, in effect charg peopl to be subject to advertising.typ of the new servic is the indiana jone line, which cost $2.50 for a two-minut story. 
 sen. howard metzenbaum (d., ohio) has threaten to propos legisl curtail phone line advertis to children.whil the movi line say they are gear toward older teens, they are advertis on mtv and cabl station watch by younger children, too. 
 to combat the critics, interact telemedia, a los angeles-bas firm special in 900 number for the entertain business, has come up with a system to block multipl calls.it system would allow a movi line, for example, to accept onli a certain number of call from a singl phone number. 
 interact has work with paramount, lucasfilm and others, but so far hasn't use the block system."th abus has been in sex line and gab lines, and we don't have either. 
 we'v had absolut no complaints," say barclay lottimer, vice presid of sale and marketing.still, the line are far from a sure thing, and it too soon to say if they even work. 
 sinc then, paramount "star trek v" and "indiana jones" have followed, while orion "great ball of fire" has experi with a 900 number in a veri limit way. so far, though, most of the phone line have been disappointing.interact mr. lottimer, for example, say he expect to get more than one million phone call on the "star trek" and "indiana jones" lines, which his compani work on, but respons was in the "high six figures" instead. 
 "the key is to be abl to handl those calls," say ronald a. katz, presid and chief execut officer.h say his compani will be look into movi lines, as well as record promot in which, say, caller could hear a preview of a new madonna song. 
 the drawback haven't prevent film market from continu to dabble, if cautiously, in untest waters.d.l. blair is work on a 900 line to coincid with the aug. 31 video releas of "bill and ted excel adventure," a teen movi star georg carlin as a time traveler. a tv commerci plug the line will run on mtv, and a long promot spiel for the toll line will appear on the video.blair mr. ellman say the compani is also work on a 900 line to coincid with an anim christma video releas and a major featur film for next summer.still, plenti of moviemak are steer clear of the 900 number lines, wari of the sometim sleazi reput of the business. 
  some of your old henchmen at the yard do their stuff , splendid . been on the line to them on and off all day .
  in the back row sit mission control brass . alongsid kraft sit mission director georg hage , who has direct line from his consol to the white hous , the state depart and nasa washington headquart .
  contribut by mary-jo jansson van b. fox , who direct nbc live program seri , " wide , wide world , " tell about a show on america mountain : there were five locat director work in the field , and i was direct from the control center in new york . we had just come to the last three minut on the air , when sudden the produc bark a warn : " van , they'v lost the line from the next locat .
  " now that panic time , for tv cardin rule is : the program must end on time ! i punch a button open my line to joe behar , the director in colorado : " joe , we'v got to stretch .
  " hello . " but by now the line was dead .
  alvin jerk up the phone and shout " hello ! " the line was dead .
  he cross to the desk and lift the telephon . the line was dead .
  she would send philipp a telegram . help could not be had by talk into a dead line , but no one in his famili would leav a telegram unread .
  there was noth new about the boy . one of tibb fellow investig came on the line briefli ; he had made a quick check of the area where the shoot had taken place .
  " mommi , " came a veri small voic , " did you say i kill him ? " " johnni ... " she began when anoth voic cut into the line .
  then he held his breath . " mr. tibb , " the voic of maggi mcguir came tear over the line , " i'v heard from johnni ! "
  " did he say where he was , mrs. mcguir ? " a suppress sob came over the line .
  " whi , yes . the oper came on the line , like they do , and said that three minut were up and to signal when we were through .
  at last there was a respons , he listen for a moment and then pass the phone to tibb . " tom satriano is on the line , " he advis .
  what your troubl ? " on the other end of the line , in the forward torpedo room of the squalus , lt. ( j. g. ) john nichol struggl to maintain his composur .
  " there was a short paus befor oliv naquin said with quiet elat , " hello , wilki . " but just as wilkin start to respond , the sculpin rose high on an ocean swell and the line went dead .
  in his posit , i'd have had to do the same thing . " a wild laugh reach ainsli from the other end of the line . "
  that was all she was permit to say . the line went dead .
  " you hear me ? get off this line !
  don't call back . keep this line open !
  pleas , pleas don't " sudden that was all . the line die .
  " hullo , hullo . don't go away ... . hullo ... . " the line was dead .
  she diall the fire station . the line was still open there , but no one answer , not even the base radio offic .
  but by noon the voic which claim to be obolenski was back on the phone again , this time be refer to anoth dominick execut , sinc his origin contact there had gone out to lunch . by the time the call was switch , the line was dead .
  the detail came through around two in the afternoon . the voic which claim to be mr. szemzo seem to be consult at the other end of the line with someon at the bank .
  " the quot was slight over 550 per share . there was more mumbl at the other end of the line .
  sever minut went by as miss bailey held the phone . then the voic which claim to be szemzo came back on the line .
  at this point jaquith was carri on a detail oper for the slayton interest . he had a direct line to the model order room , set up for daili confirm of purchas and sale .
  mani type of busi use rent circuit to connect home offic with branch . certain offic at the unit nation complex in new york have direct line go back to govern offic in their home countri .
  she told me how much she love me , that she was count on me to keep the hui go no matter what , and that she plan to leav a littl someth for you , my son , in her will . then sudden , in the middl of a sentenc , the line went dead .
  one day i got a long-dist call from an affili station in washington . the man on the other end of the line let call him barri stump was the moder of a popular panel show .
  " right up against the door on his face , just like the first ... " brian hard young finger diall rapid and without error . somewher distant at the other end of the line a furious but control voic address him .
  " he misdial in his hast , and swore , and start over again . the sergeant voic , onli slight fur with sleep , came over the line .
  his face gave noth away as he went to the telephon ; but certain he went with alacr . " i know you told me to get in touch with the polic , " said the creami voic of alix over the line , without preambl , " but i need to confirm someth with you first .
  " veri odd , " agre alix . there was one instant of curious and specul silenc on the line .
  sergeant moon had been dispatch home for a well-earn rest and a brief look at his more regular respons , and it was detect sergeant brice who answer the telephon and hand the receiv across the tabl . " here ballist on the line , sir . "
  that is one aspect of the zeigarnik effect a procliv to rememb unfinish busi , and to forget finish busi . you have experienc this when you have look up a telephon number but found the line busi when you first call it .
  the whole goddamn system was break down . he redial the hospit matern floor on a direct line busi too !
  here he was with two phone booth and a phone to each ear the guy probabl thought he was a hors player or a booki . the answer servic came through while the hospit line was still ring busi .
  i was just go to tri to reach you . i have the husband of one of your patient on anoth line .
  with his partner on vacat he would have to grab whoever was on the matern floor and ask them to hang on until he got there . a voic came on the hospit line , crisp and businesslik .
  " hello , weaver , " he said and then to put her on the defens , " what all the gab on the hous phone ? i couldn't get an open line to you . "
  " fine , " henderson said , aimiabl . " can you get him on the line ?
  he heav himself to his feet and sat down at the desk , make the long distanc call to the wisconsin hospit emerg room . the resid who was take care of mrs. cochran was quick on the line .
  cheer . here , i'v got her on the line for you now .
  keep low by crawl across the kitchen floor , he reach up for the wall phone , place it to his ear and heard noth . the line was dead .
  i was sound asleep . i certain haven't been get ani call and just now when i grab the phone to call you , the line was dead .
  he hurri into the bedroom , put the gun back in it secret hide place and snatch up shoe , sock , shirt , and slack . back in the kitchen he took the wall phone and dial the emerg room at the hospit on a direct line .
  " i'v got a call for you from dr. laden . he on the line .
  there goe her goddamn placenta ! " have you still got her husband on the other line ? " he ask .
  i may need you . " bill sinclair came on the line .
  ruth sinclair sister was call . when he tri to return the telephon call , the line was busi and rather than wast ani time he had driven right over to the hous .
  he got up and head out through the swing door . his answer servic was on the line , hold a call from bill sinclair .
  " oh , my , " i said in an apologet voic , " i didn't get you out of bed , did i ? " there was a moment of silenc on the other end of the line , and then with a wist littl sigh she repli , " no. but i wish you had . "
  mrs. barbara agt , allison closest friend on the faculti , say , " no one felt respons for inform the parent of the dead student . the kraus tri to telephon kent , but all line were out .
  telex comput product , tulsa , okla . for inform : circl 375 on reader card the model 185 termin allow a user to process unjustifi paper tape from a remot site use either dial-up or dedic line .
  a seem minor semant disput has given on-lin dp user and supplier a good chanc of win a major victori against ma bell . if they win , the fcc will take jurisdict over " inform system access line " that cross state border .
  the hope is that if fcc take over , isal rate will be reduc or abolish . the semant disput began last spring , when the commiss ask ma bell whi it had file interst tariff to cover onli a portion of type 2006 foreign exchang servic the portion repres by the foreign exchang line .
  last septemb , at&t was told to file tariff with the commiss cover " the complet interst foreign exchang servic . " it will be some time befor these rate are file , say an fcc offici , becaus the rule affect liter thousand of foreign exchang line .
  the latest frontal assault concern the ibm 2701/2/3 data adapt / telecommun control , which this vendor feel can be veri nice remov and replac by the ids-64/360 . a mac-16 mini is use to control from 1 to 256 synchron or asynchron line .
  paul had brought the fig tree from north florida and honor alway thought of the one jesus curs when she look at it , becaus it remain barren in spite of paul care tend . when she had finish the dish honor call ann luis and knew at onc from the glum tone at the other end of the line that ann luis parent had gone out and left her to baby-sit .
  the nois damper on my air-condition has blown through the roof . " " oh , hell , " a tire voic said at the other end of the line .
  i telephon the offic and had them connect me with bertha cool . " donald , bertha , " i said , when i heard her voic on the line .
  " just a second . " seller came on the line .
  now what are you go to do ? " i pick up the phone , ask for an outsid line , dial homicid , and got frank seller . "
  i walk past him out of the offic , on into my own offic and call sacramento . i got lucill patton on the line .
  as might happen in a real shoot , the countdown was interrupt sever time becaus of problem , and it was soon determin that a key radar station on wake island in the pacif ocean was not oper proper . a line check was made and the malfunct trace to a switch center in hawaii .
  we'v put an automat tracer on the phone which feed our equip . if he call , the number he call from is automat lock in and fed to us and we don't have to go through all that two-phon jazz , keep him on the line .
  " okay , do that , " i said . elsi pick up the telephon , punch the button for bertha line , wait a moment , then said , " mr. lam just came in , mrs. cool .
  " the woman would simpli ask to be connect with my offic . you'd talk with her and she would tell you what she want to see me about so then i'd get on the line .
  leav them to me . i'll talk long enough to keep the line busi for the proper interv .
  the switchboard oper said , " i'll connect you with his secretari . " a moment later elsi was on the line .
  public was siren music to the ear of the stripper , and she quit pull the zipper to listen . when i had colley on the line , i said , " okay , colley , your idea work . "
  sex , seduct and sure-fir stori stuff . get the hell off the line so i can start call the newspap !
  i grin and said , " back to your crime clip , sister . bertha cool will be in direct , and i'v got to get an attorney on the line and get iren addi to file a petit for the probat of the last will and testament of herbert jason dowl .
  basic , this is becaus the nois is elimin in the process of convert the signal into light puls . the result is that nois generat at the send end isn't transmit , and there is no " line nois " as such .
  mark comput system , inc. , plainview , n.y. for inform : circl 309 on reader card cip ( communic interfac processor ) is a turnkey system that enabl multiplex of low speed termin direct into 360 comput without softwar modif . consist of processor , rom for multiplex / demultiplex and os compat , 360 interfac hardwar , and line adapt , cip take care of code convers , network mainten and monitor . the system support up to 12 multiplexor over full duplex , voic grade line ( 1200 , 2400 or 4800 baud ) and up to 176 low speed ( 600 baud ) line . the ceil on the low speed line is determin by the number of channel address by the 360 system .
  he close his eye and tri to make his mind a blank , and he had almost drop off to sleep when the telephon rang , send a jolt through him like an electr charg . he pick it up and said , " hello , " and immedi wish he hadn't , becaus it was selden fulton at the other end of the line .
  standish took the emend proof sheet and left , and goodman pick up the phone and dial his home number . the line was busi , so he hung up , and almost immedi his phone rang .
  and don't phone me . if he find the line busi , he might decid just promis me you won't talk to that agent , or the polic , or anyon . "
  thank , anyway . " the transatlant line die .
  takada seem pleas . onc , the voic at the other end of the line was that of pete russo , who want to know if he could borrow a left-hand toggl switch .
  " ross , you bastard , is this your idea of a joke ? " on the other end of the line , safe by half an island , stuie ross beam .
  " wrong telephon , " she said . " that the outsid line .
  " household scandal . that aw sanctimoni gamboni , our butler , was on the line , make a call from paul room , which he has no right to do anyway .
  there was a tini hesit , and then emmi said , with curious emphasi , " i'm all right . it you that ... " there was a click , and the line went dead .
  " when john came out of natasha room and ran into paul and myself , " he went on , " he was embarrass not to see paul , who understood the situat perfect , but to see me . for my benefit , he made up a ridicul lame excus ; that he had been tri to telephon from natasha room , but that the line was engag .
  she ask him , " was i veri bad , darl ? " without answer her , he pick up the telephon and told the oper to tri him on that line if he could not be found elsewher .
  i walk straight into the telephon booth and ask for merlin offic number . would his line be tap ?
  i gave my name as caneton . merlin came on the line , first as a distant voic say apologet : " ... m'excus , inspecteur . "
  i thought " i took a coupl of quick step and pick up the phone . " qui est " but the line was dead by now .
  " one of them pretti . " there was a crackl on the line that might have been his age chuckl .
  the dialer set off a seri of impuls that race electron toward ani given number . onc the phone is answer , the apparatus lock and an experienc technician , know where to look , can figur out where the call origin , but onli so long as the caller remain on the line .
  in the mackl game room 669 mile south of atlanta , agent lee kusch impati pick up the telephon . " get off the line , pleas , " he began , then stop in mid-sent .
  " and now someth that is a part of all of our live ... a messag from the sponsor , " kupcinet said to the camera . he smile until the red light went out , then immedi turn and pick up a telephon with " kup " print on the dial , his line to the control booth .
  i was begin to get the distinct impress that brother allen did not like me . then he bustl out of the box , jerk his head over his shoulder at the phone and said : " my busi manag is on the line .
  " that was the last time bell ever talk on the phone . he couldn't get his wife off the line .
  i found out it was me . both jeanett and i assum he was there to test the line or chang the dial .
  i forgot about transcontinent phone call . my wife spent so much time call her mother and sister that the state depart use to break in and ask her to get off the line .
  " i'll tell you what , " she volunt . " we'll put a test on your line , and i'll let you know what happen . "
  put him on . " at this point i hear all sort of garbl commot at the other end of the line .
  " yeah . " there was anoth veri long paus with dead air on the line between them .
  i crumpl the note and toss it on the bed , then snatch up the phone again . " get off the line , jim .
  i'v got to call the airport . " " get off the line ? " he said .
  " i'll be by your place in a few minut to pick it up . now get off the line so i can see if i'm too late to hold the plane .
  don't even put that phone down . keep this line open and stick that phone in general cooper face the instant he come through that door .
  just a moment . bob vincent of the fbi come on the other line .
  i want to talk direct with my crew . " " can we keep an open line with you ? "
  onli three chute . someon forgot he was on open radio line and swore vicious .
  he got the word . we'r keep an open line to his offic .
  " yes . " " if you still have that open line to the white hous you'd better notifi the presid of the situat . "
  " sheridan toss the telephon to vincent and turn to his aid . " is that line open to the pentagon ?
  he say that some of his best tip have come from the least like sourc ( " peopl with their offic in their hat , " he call them ) and he never refus to talk to stranger who visit his offic or telephon him . " you never know when santa claus might be on the other end of the line , " fuqua remark .
  the telephon ring . ah , it is one of our happi custom about to come on the line , no doubt want to express his satisfact with some handsom masonit product that he has instal .
  he would still have like to use charl russel but he didn't think russel would chang his mind . so he pick up a phone whose line was secur and he rang to what russel had onc command .
  most of the public telephon were alreadi tie up by correspond . somebodi was fight with the hous phone , under the impress that it was an outsid line , and so brad took the elev up to his room and put in a call to rhona suit .
  he pick up the telephon . " this is eddi , " he said , when foley came on the line .
  earlier that same morn mahler had been awaken by the inexor telephon . landowski was on the line .
  he turn away and ask for a telephon number . jane gate was instant on the line .
  " yes , doctor ? " the line went silent .
  staff peopl pass the open door , wave good night , and went on . final a cautious syrupi voic got on the line .
  " wait a minut , " o'dwyer said . sarah got on the line at onc .
  i scream , " my god , she been burn , " and ran half-dress and half-crazi to the phone downstair . pick up the receiv , i heard two farsi voic chat and i scream for them to get off the line immedi .
  but now , when i need them , the word were come . it seem like hour befor i could reach bob on the crackl , scratchi line .
  " for now , we'll concentr on the system . some of the major data bank , like the one held by defens , may have five hundr or a thousand access line .
  some of the major data bank , like the one held by defens , may have five hundr or a thousand access line . a year ago , wilken congression committe start to worri about unauthor tap into those access line .
  " pete , just tell me what it mean . " " jesus , this is an open line . " " i know it an open line .
  " i haven't got time . " " you'r ask me on an open line to defin a hot new weapon system and break it code and you haven't got "
  " yes we did , and now somebodi got themselv a half-ton of zv gas in binari aerosol cylind , and we want to know who . " " you certain ought to be concern , " grave said , " but this is an open line . "
  when he reach the station the one-and-on taxi was off on a long trip . he tri to phone fenella but the line was out of order , so natur he put a call through to us and oliv took it .
 mr. marasek has been known to sew a loaf of bread togeth to prevent the cast from trip over a fallen slice. itself pose a risk to actors, who may swallow more than their lines. 
 "planter is give us cashew for broadway bound,'" say mr. marasek."th cast goe through a pound a show, even though there onli a line about one nut in the script. 
 macbeth is crown king, but he is consum by guilt.experienc gradual disintegration, he utter the line that signal the futil of his existence: 
 mr. boeski -- whose prep-school educ presum includ an introduct to greek and shakespearean tragedi -- may have been less surpris than other by his own downfall.perhap he rememb the line from shakespear "henri viii": "cromwell, i charg thee, fling away ambition, by that sin fell the angels." 
 "first of all, i can't stand movi with titl i can't pronounce," say one.h show us actor train in shakespear stumbl over such tryout line as: "i ain't be got no weapon." 
 indeed, it is rumor that some firm in new york at time dispens entir with lengthi bill and detail per-hour calculations.cli report get a one-pag bill on which is written a singl line. 
 not until he got to emerson college, where he major in directing, did he learn to speak fluently.a he recal his colleg days, he interrupt himself to rattl off the first six line of molier "the misanthrope." 
 no one question mr. dole masteri of the detail of govern and his quick wit, but it still isn't clear whether he will be abl to project vision, to talk less about committe action and more about conviction.th entreati to add a broader vision and a rhetor lilt to the candid appeal -- to forc a speaker accustom to the senat chamber to project his voic to a nation audienc -- are plain jar to mr. dole, who is uncomfort with the touch of tennyson that crept into the polit speech of the kennedi brother or with the line from lincoln that are the stapl of republican speeches. 
 the agenc is tri to determin whether a unit of giant group ltd., a bever hills, calif.-bas cement concern control by mr. sugarman, and other entiti with tre hold fail to disclos that they were act in concert, sourc said.becaus of a product error some line were drop in an earlier edition. 
 the speech larg was written not by the usual team of white hous speechwriters, but by an outsid to the administration, landon parvin.mr. parvin has written some of first ladi nanci reagan anti-drug speech as well as gag line for a number of well-known washington officials, includ former chief of staff regan. 
 i wish i could rememb who -- wrote, "there no sport righter than a sportswriter."it a cute line, but untrue. 
 three month later, when the tune was given the song-slid treatment, "take me out to the ball game" becam a big hit.twelv to 16 color transpar were usual necessari to illustr a song, one slide for each line of lyrics. 
 the brief shot open with him saying: "when i said i never knew a thing about the waterg break-in, you probabl didn't believ me, did you?"that line is follow by a descript of mr. ehrlichman as "an unbeliev person for an unbeliev product." 
 as it stands, awkward as a boy who walk nake into the "y" pool and discov a crowd gather for a swim meet, "ishtar" provid embarrassment, but also laughter.ms. may has written some great joke and clever lines: for example, the way jack weston, who doe a brief but amus stint as the low-level talent agent who repres the duo, sum up his client career prospects. 
 the news provid a lot of the jokes.about a half hour befor the show, the cast of six gather backstag to brainstorm about new lines. 
 although a former democrat and teachers-union activist, he earn a reput as a fiscal conserv dure his two term as mayor of tampa, fla., by slash properti taxes.a a gubernatori candidate, mr. martinez, the grandson of spanish immigrants, mock his democrat opponent, steve pajcic, with line such as: "he never met a tax he didn't like." 
 peopl go about find one in differ ways.th industri will buy the daili race form and perus the long line of tini number that constitut the hors biographies. 
 but "the bronx zoo" sweat and strain all the same, regal us poor understimul viewer with oodl of lip-moistening, hip-grind dirti talk.whil harri and sara talk a good game, the action is less convinc -- perhap becaus the two actors, david wilson and kathryn harrold, can't conceal their boredom with the stupid line they have to recite. 
 mr. werner, a 27-year-old litig specialist with kirkpatrick & lockhart, also describ how a firm might review the work of a young associ name abraham lincoln: "about your work habits: you can't turn in your speech on the back of an envelope. . . .and this first line, fourscor and seven years. 
 their shortsight commit to quarter figur skew the market and can be address onli through new feder legislation.their testimoni remind me of the line in the comic strip "pogo": "we have met the enemi and he is us." 
 a local minist forbad his congreg to see "hamlet" -- presum becaus of cuss word ad by the company.and there were mishaps, as when gus watson, the grocer, forgot the line "how now lord hamlet" and settl for "hi." 
 telephon line link home termin to the compani central comput weren't alway reliable."we'd lose a line in the middl of transmission, and mani time have to redo the work," say raymond howell, who help overse hartford yearlong experiment. 
 natur lighting, subdu colors, extrem close-up and a graini film qualiti all contribut to the true-to-lif feel of cinema verit ads.also, peopl in the ad speak with a natur cadence, use colloqui phrase and punctuat their line with paus and an occasion "uh" or "you know." 
 we have onli four teeth.bayles: alf, you use that line in a recent episode! 
 "he quiet, not particular argumentative, and he know what question to ask.if a lawyer forget ani of his lines, nate is the first to prompt him." 
 behind the scenes, however, anoth battl was brew within congress itself.th budget resolut contain a line that is like to creat a furor in the oil industri and between lawmak from differ region of the country. 
 "the way i alway cast is, would i want to sit next to him in a bar?" he says.add michael forman, a hollywood talent agent, "we have model that can't for the life of them deliv a line." 
 ibm is expect to spend $30 million advertis the new product in the next three months.th barrag began with a full-pag newspap ad yesterday that carri no compani name and end with a singl line: "here we go again." 
 the decis "no" vote was cast by an execut who thought the novel was an adolesc fantasy, and said the author would do well to consult a therapist about his problem.th line found it way into the novel. 
 her own marriag is an even richer sourc for the strip.mrs. johnston often interrupt a marit argument to jot down a particular good line, say her husband, rod. 
 the success of the cooki led her to team up with deborah kaufman, an art administrator, to form divin inc.th compani first product, call divin poetri in chocolate, is a hand-folded, chocolate-dip fortun cooki contain line from a poet, such as oscar wild or gertrud stein. 
 percentag figur were slight off in one line of a tabl accompani warren brook articl on yesterday editori page. 
 one read far too much about cocain addict these day for either reaction.what caught my eye were a coupl of line in which mclain explain whi he felt he was abov the kind of constraint that might have led him to think twice about use the illeg and harm drug. 
 mr. resnai compar the melodrama to a puccini opera."i want it to be like a draw you make without lift the pen off the paper -- i want the audienc to be move by the line, the simplic of the line." 
 agreement even on relat trivial matters, such as common safeti standard for forklift or children toys, take years.so mani tedious council of minist meet end without real progress on major issu that report joke that there is one open line that serv for 90% of their stories. 
 as a wall street journal reporter, i'm often ask for advic on good investments.i respond with such old line as: "want to make a small fortun in the markets? 
 gabelli equiti trust inc. had a net asset valu of $9.36 and a close price of 8 7/8 as of friday.in the list of public trade fund in an earlier edition, the line were reversed. 
 "oh, what a tangl web we weave, when first we practic to deceive," recit assist u.s. attorney sheldon light, cite sir walter 19th-centuri poem "marmion."mov ahead 100 years, he close with mr. dylan immort line, "you don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows." 
 although there no plot to speak of, the cast includ the titl character, a seer who talk to the bird (and they to him, natch); numer believ and skeptic passers-by; a host of god and goddesses; the personif of sorrow; and the personif of laughter.ther are also line for "a thousand voices" (muffled) and "the distant mountains" (which say "mogoooo! 
 she could be a young mother or a career girl," he says."but when you read the first two lines, she isn't that way anymore. {she is} out sleep around." 
 virginius dabney, now 85, add a prefatori note about the incept of this select from his book and newspap writing.occasion he insert a few line of comment at the head of a chapter. 
 no one, least of all mr. hall, would say that the answer are all in on the futur of the dtc.but for the moment he can afford to take a deep breath and mayb even sing one of randi newman line from a song in "all the king men": i'm all right now. 
 america is the land of the norman rockwel small town of his hollywood youth.doubtless olli north deed remind the presid of his own intrepid exploit in film like "desper journey," where he help errol flynn escap from a nazi pow camp; the famous last line was, "now for australia and a crack at those japs!" 
 charl boyer didn't say it to hedi lamarr in the 1938 film "algiers."but the famous line that never was has lent the oldest section of this capit an imag of glamour and romanc -- and not without justification. 
 he never grew up and his vers is bog in his swansea childhood."but in write such line will you allow yourself to think you are not pay off dylan for his inimit verbal talent? 
 the big question about him is whether he can excit voter on the stump.seem anticip this problem yesterday, he deliv line that echo john f. kennedy. 
 but there must be someth between overstyl video imageri and this lifeless stuff; beer commerci carri more of a wallop.ms. jett make someth out of patti despit the line mr. schrader has given her. 
 nobodi els made ani impact, and not much was gain by chuck the opera tradit spoken dialogu in favor of some recent discov recit pen by massenet after the 1884 premier at the opera-comique.on the other hand, the met forc it "carmen" cast to speak the origin french dialogu instead of the tradit orchestr lines. 
 "who knew the market would go up so far, so fast, this earli in the year?" say greg confair, the presid of sigma financi inc., an allentown, pa., invest adviser."it proof of the old line that the market will alway act in a way to frustrat the greatest number of people." 
 it start out with a line in ronald reagan 1986 state of the union address ask a member of his cabinet to come up with a program in which "the privat sector and govern can work together" to protect american hit by catastroph ill from financi ruin. 
 how mani but-for arguments, "res ipsa" claim and 1,000-word footnot can our cultur absorb?how mani more feder judg can get by with line like, "we write, therefore, on a relat "tabula rasa," despit the burgeon field of secur law." 
 mr. iacocca has repeat said he doesn't want the nomin and appear eager to send that messag again follow the board meeting."i'm steal a line from the presid and go for four more years, but i'm do them in detroit, and not in washington," he said. 
 howev it is also rearrang and out of context to suit mr. billingsley contention.th veri next line of my statment made it clear that i had been speak satir and that those view did not repres my own attitudes.mr. billingsley did not see fit to quot that line. 
 the postal servic said it will modifi it contract with electrocom autom inc. of arlington, texas, in order to acquir more sophist mail-sort equipment.th new contract will mandat design chang so the equip will be abl to "read" sever line of a type address on a business-s envelope.th origin electrocom contract, valu at about $200 million, was for the deliveri of 406 mailsort capabl of read onli one line. 
 in the famous final scene of the 1939 film "gone with the wind," rhett butler, free at last from scarlett spell after be led around by the nose for three hour and 40 minutes, respond to her ultim tirad with a sad, debonair: "frankly, my dear, i don't give a damn."even today, audienc greet the line with cheer and applause. 
 he stomp around tampa threaten to molest the skin in various ugli ways, includ tear off their lip (ugh!).alzado also got off the best pre-sb line i'v heard. 
 american express offici say the compani receiv a stand ovat at the ralli when one of their market told the crowd, "we'r mile-high on the broncos."add the compani mr. freeman, "how could you pass up a market line like that?" 
 "lorillard won't public admit it made a mistake, even though the peopl there are concern about the controversi and will be alter the ads," say a sourc close to the company.but sara ridgway, a lorillard spokeswoman, assert that the campaign won't be kill and that if there are ani changes, "the essenc of the ads, includ the line, the experi you seek, will remain the same." 
 a prefac of a singl page or less accompani each play.ther is a glossary, and for the "sonnets" an index of first lines. 
 sure one day to enter standard book of quotat was sir robert admiss that sometim in his role as chief mandarin he had to be "econom with the truth."that line, say peter hennessy, a british polit commentator, "could have come straight out of sir humphrey mouth in yes, prime minister. " sir humphrey appleby, in the tv show, hold the same job as sir robert hold in real life under prime minist margaret thatcher. 
 the hous and senat committe investig the iran/contra affair are tri to work out an agreement to meet on altern days.that way neither will upstag the other as each new revel is milked, like a fine line from hamlet, for all it worth. 
 but what, exactly?beyond memor the line and move about in an appropri way, what doe an actor do? 
 "i play the friend of anoth psychiatrist, who is perplex becaus her patient, a compuls gambler, want to commit suicide," say miss skala."but a lot of my line were difficult to understand. 
 in one instance, miss skala was abl to tone down some raw dialogu by suggest a substitut joke she rememb from her act career in austria, where she was born.in a scene with miss crouse, she ad a line, "you need joy." 
 charl lindbergh histor word were, "i made it."neil armstrong utter the neat craft "one small step" lines. 
 "they are intrigued," add ms. emmons, "becaus never has the technic matter so much.in other product you kill yourself to make a chair and the director will just throw it out if they cut the line about the chair. 
 but the api, join by some group profess concern for "nation security," has begun suggest that anoth energi crisi might develop sometim in the near future, probabl by the mid-1990s.wher have we heard that line before? 
 as it happened, much of the oil industri fare veri well under controls, main becaus of the system of "entitlements" that act as a subsidi to compani that depend heavili on import oil.w wonder to this day whether the shell and exxon execut who peddl the "impend shortage" line back then had foreseen how well their privat interest would be served. 
 at one point last week, the juror sent word to judg cook that they were deadlock on the loan issue, but judg cook sent back a note tell them to "continu to deliberate," mr. bryce said.h said the instruct that most confus the juror as they continu to deliber was one line on a special verdict form that read, "without such unanim agreement, you must find the defend not guilti of count one" -- a racket charge. 
 he said the instruct that most confus the juror as they continu to deliber was one line on a special verdict form that read, "without such unanim agreement, you must find the defend not guilti of count one" -- a racket charge.mr. bryce said the juror ask the judg for a specif clarif of that one line. 
 if you'r not abus me, you'r embarrass me."i didn't fulli appreci this line of dialog until the movi was over. 
 the rev. pat robertson has good ideas, "but i don't think we'r readi for him."ther "someth about" rep. kemp "that make it imposs for peopl to understand what he is saying," and when a fellow gop candid told her mr. kemp remind him of the strateg defens initi -- about 60% effect -- she ask whether she could borrow the line. 
 mr. o'neil may be the sort of man who watch "gener electr theatre," but even retir has not mellow his view of ronald reagan, who enter polit in a fashion alien to mr. o'neil and who domin washington in the year of his speakership."most of the time he was an actor read lines, who didn't understand his own programs," mr. o'neil writes. 
 the command to shoot escape has been made into law.even their nation anthem is no longer sung becaus a line in the text says, germany, unit fatherland.'" 
 these are the kind of answer that could come from children in ani school in ani stable, decent community, and for a moment it is possibl to forget that the moral and physic blight of the ghetto is just outside.but sudden it intrud in a singl line, tortuous written and full of misspellings, produc by a 15-year-old girl. 
 mr. abbott arriv here in earli april, and after two gruel day of audit set to work with the 20-member cast.at first the actor were put off by mr. abbott practic of tell perform exact how to say a line and where to move. 
 but gradual i ad schoolboy stuff: a tug at the forelock, dig my shoe in the carpet.thre week into the run the laugh were gone, and georg said to me: just say the line flat without those curlicues. 
 movi buff rememb the line. 
 the same arrang will be use to portion out $12,000 gift from next week dinner, preced by cocktail at mr. gorog home in mclean, va.th invit includ 15 line of fine print explaining, "in accord with feder elect regulations, 11 cfr 9034.8(c)(3)," how the money will flow. 
 it is appropri to ask whether, in our contemporary, deregul transport environment, the law promot or encumb public-interest considerations; whether noth more is need than to transfer the two industri to the other law; or whether, in an attempt to change, the collis of special interest in congress might reshuffl the deck in some unpredict way that would not serv either the public or the industries.for peopl who have invest their career in one or the other of the railway labor act industries, these are profound question that deserv more than a throwaway line in what is otherwis a construct editorial. 
 richard leder write in verbatim, the languag quarterly, that a version of the song in earli french had the suitor offer onli a partridge, or une pertriz.a 1718 english version combin partridg and pertriz so that the line came out sound like a partridg in a pear tree. 
 that smart was a nativ of nearbi baton rouge, la. -- a mere set shot from his superdom heroic -- ad piquanc to the show.th truth-is-strang line was stronger at the masters, where winner mize, a longtim also-ran, was a home-town boy who had cut his spike at augusta countri club, just across the fenc from the august augusta nation cours where the tourney is held. 
 for the taping, he brought togeth the score of politician who have appear on agildo in wonderland over the past nine months.al they had to do was wave beer glass and sing a wish for the new year, includ these lines: 
 pennzoil further cave in when it drop it demand for interest total about $1 million a day until payment of the settlement.mr. kinnear station himself at weil gotschal with his batteri of attorney as the draft plan was examin line by line. 
 "at night, befor we'd go to sleep, jack like to play some records; and the song he love most came at the veri end of this record.th line he love to hear were: don't let it be forgot, that onc there was a spot, for one brief shine moment that was known as camelot.'" 
 newspap editor franci p. church becam famous for a 1897 editorial, address to a child, that includ the line "yes, virginia, there is a santa claus." 
 dawn upshaw did not becom the hot new soprano overnight, just almost overnight.thre year ago she was a graduat student make her metropolitan opera debut with "three line and a great costume" as the countess ceprano in "rigoletto." 
 but he see littl reason to believ that it measur to decentr econom decis will achiev their goal of inspir greater product and creativity.on joke mr. birman hear from friend back home revers that old karl marx line about capit be a necessari stage on the road to socialism. 
 feder reserv board chairman alan greenspan borrow a line from his predecessor, paul volcker, and call upon the reagan administr and congress to take further step toward close the budget deficit. 
 "wall street casualty," say another, follow by ad head "post black mon value" and "crash victim anxious for im sale."som of these line may be just attention-getters. 
 possibl still lack is a sens of whimsy.som nutti line fell flat. 
 report from miami stake out his hous and discov donna rice.and sen. biden, the democrat demosthenes, unhors for borrow class-consci line from a celebr speech by neil kinnock, long-wind leader of great britain socialist party. 
 it turn out, too, that mr. biden realli wasn't the student at colleg and law school he had said he was."i exagger when i get angry," said the senator, in a line that would have sent h.l. mencken run for his trusti corona typewriter. 
 you'v land in the 50s, take in still anoth earnest, angri melodrama about the failur of the system to recogn that eccentr aren't necessarili crazy.you'r hear line such as: "a divorc woman is a target. 
 nevertheless, the compos call his "desert song" a romant operetta and it was stage as such at the 1926 premiere.societi have made a few small advanc sinc then, director/choreograph robert johanson stage the piec as a parody, appar revis part of the libretto though i wouldn't own up to it if i were he sinc no line utter suggest a modern mind at work. 
 a british scientist is risk his life to get it out.i am hook from the open line: 
 the movi onli bona fide star is jame earl jone as "few clothes" johnson, the impromptu leader of the black scabs.though his line are few, the sheer bulk of his bodi and that reson voic make his presenc felt throughout. 
 next week, however, a tini silicon valley firm will introduc a new reader that appear to provid a price breakthrough in read technology.clos held transimag corp. $2,600 hand-held reader can be swept along a line of text in a book or magazin and instant turn it into comput code for editing, alter or insert into letter or manuals. 
 will he tri to take her home?"you are put me in a veri delic position," he says, in what seem to be a stock line for august bachelors. 
 the last two line are probabl the most familiar: 
 and even though he led us to believ that we were in for an even of sentiment comedy, we let him get away with it.but when he bring all the survivor onstag to weep disconsol at their loss, and then, with a singl mean line of dialogu set them all laugh again we won't buy it. 
 the network say they have to polic commercials, becaus ad encourag peopl to imit them, while program is mere meant to entertain.typically, advertis send to the network storyboard of plan commercials; then the network examin everi line and nuance, often send commerci back for chang and sometim reject them altogether. 
 the group catch his enthusiasm."in a thousand year i couldn't come up with a line like this," say mr. gross. 
 in numer flashback scenes, we see him brutal his wife, his son, and his daughter, elena.sinc it imposs to judg the literari qualiti of a play when it line are be simultan translat via headphones, it hard to know if "renidero" is realli as didact as it seem to me. 
 this time, however, the formula flounders.oh, there are funni line and antic scenes: for example, mr. gently, the holist privat dick, promis to "solv the whole crime" and to "find the whole person," and a univers don nose is describ as bear a strike resembl to "the controversi keel which had help the australian win the america cup in 1983." 
 globe editor say mr. taylor hand is light."w talk over major things, but bill doesn't look over everi line of copy," say martin nolan, editori page editor. 
 this latest "jaws," the fourth in the series, is do good business, though the audienc i saw it with didn't seem veri scared, or veri involv in ani way at all.no one gasp when the shark (was it alway so obvious fake?) chomp human snacks, nor did anyon boo or hiss at the silli line and general aw performances. 
 accord to one current school of opinion, love is no longer compat with femal self-respect.thi opinion is reflect in the scene where molli fail to get a rise out of her psychiatrist until she blurt out the line about still love fred. 
 then the doctor prick up her ears; clearly, here is evid of a serious disorder.and the same line is quot in this week tv guid articl about blair brown, the actress who play molly, as evid of the contrast between the fiction molli and the real-lif ms. brown. 
 paul maslin, poll taker and polit strategist, say he can predict now the singl line that will set off the biggest ovat at next summer democrat nation convention. 
 most virtuous of all is ritchie, play by lou diamond phillips, who with his sweet face and delic carriag alreadi look frozen into sainthood.h walk around the camp, his guitar tuck under his arm, exud good and line like: "mi dream are pure rock and roll." 
 with his eye dart and intelligent, adm. poindext had a professori demeanor and a wonder prop, his pipe.h had some good line too, includ the climact word the whole plot had been build toward: "the buck stop here, with me." 
 the instrumentalist manag to cover the voic without much trouble, but mr. levin and the orchestra never summon the full-blood sound and the energi that schoenberg huge score wants.among the soloists, tatiana troyano made a marvel affect wood dove; philip creech was expert as klaus the fool, and mr. castel handl the line of the speaker most effectively. 
 "black talk to their star on the screen.if they hear a clever line, they'll say, get down. 
 those brief line tell much about the histori of farm in this area. 
 to help doctor and medic student sort through the thousand of pill and potion on the market, anoth comput program call mcdope, written at mcmaster univers in ontario, allow the user to administ drug to a varieti of patient and immedi wit the like results.until it was revised, the program includ this line: "your patient just died; do you have a good lawyer?" 
 joan river provid the voic of a robot lady-in-waiting.h line are disappoint dull but there great pleasur in hear that voic come out of a shapely, skinni bodi that look as though it been dip in gold lame from head to toe. 
 besid that, fashion in marriag chang as in other things.that line in the wed ceremoni about "until death do us part" seem nowaday a tie less bind than in former times. 
 conductor paul nadler control the ebb and flow of tchaikovski score with an expert hand.bariton mark pedrotti deliv onegin haughti line with a sneer as wide as siberia, but his sing was consider more detail and refined. 
 sometim he stop to review a detail.h dissatisfi with a coupl of deliveries, and mr. kosberg note the lines. 
 he vow to combat unfair trade practic overseas, creat an agricultur polici that works, help the homeless, build strong famili with strong values, and fight crime and violence.and in a line that seem to puzzl the carthaginians, he said that "the ancient practic of human sacrifice, onc commonplac throughout the world, is now obsolete." 
 he has, after all, been write familiar essay for a long time, and he has his move down pat.perfect titl ("they said you was high-class") and perfect open line ("how do thing stand with you and the seven dead sins?") are standard equipment. 
 pennzoil last week purchas advertis in 35 u.s. citi and in the intern herald tribune.th top line read, "on novemb 13, 1987, the wall street journal refus to run, unedited, this pennzoil ad." 
 "i like to feel comfort with do good while i go about do what i do well," he asserts.mr. delfin, who has the born salesman easi grin and smooth line of patter, is now focus on rais money for the red cross disast relief fund, which total about $30 million a year. 
 "the studi show the extent to which the most privileg in our societi have reap tremend benefit from reagan administr tax policies," said senat mitchell, invok the ancient theme of class warfare.w wonder if the senat bother to read the study, becaus if he had he might have recal the famous line about damn lie and statistics. 
 an exquisit littl paint by jean-jacqu hauer show anoth french ladi friend of wordsworth who did not: madam rolland sit in her draw room with her harp, pet dog and lafayette.plucki to the last, she manag a much-quot line befor tie down to the plank: "ah, liberty! 
 the 1923 classic mr. feshbach tout onc again is make the late, legendari jess livermor a cult figure.th notori stock-market specul from 1891 to 1940 probabl is best rememb for the line, "i never argu with the tape." 
 those men who, like me, have been remov for some year from the ceaseless bird-dog of their colleg day will enjoy ms. hite list of "pickup lines" now popular in colleg water holes.for everi line that employ the tool of the new age -- "i'v been take all these women studi cours and i'm so confus about my sexuality" -- there one that counterbal it with time-honor male logic: for example, "i bought you a beer!" 
 when the schoolkid put on their end-of-the-year concert in "sarafina!" it cap by a galvan number call "bring back nelson mandela."th afternoon i saw the show, a small knot of south african in the audienc shout "yes!" each time a line of the song invok the name of a south african martyr. 
 either way, mr. cavett is ill at eas -- shift uncertain from foot to foot, fidget with his hands.und the time pressure, he botch line and say inan thing (of a mid-match 200-200 tie he commented, "i can't help notic the score is fair even"). 
 and occasionally, the love-struck vincent even rise abov scriptwrit banality.instead of mouth line like "i realli care about what we have together, maddie," he has the sens to quot shakespeare. 
 and a success trip blight onli by bore banquet and ballet isn't the stuff of a dramat opera."nixon in china" unfold like a sappi pictur book, onc we stop be mild amaz see familiar-look politico turn into tenor and deliv such line as: "your flight was smooth, i hope?" (chou en-lai) "oh, yes, smooooooother than most" (nixon). 
 propon of this view were abet by nhl administrations, includ the current one, that held that fight is "part of the game."if you had a dollar for everi time a leagu or team offici mouth that silli line, you could restor all of the money lost in the recent stock-market decline. 
 there was no money in poetry, however.milton, for example, earn about a farth a line from "paradis lost." 
 in brief, the stori about marc connelli is one of those transfer of joke that alway occur when a joke is good.th man realli respons for the line attribut to connelli was, in fact, nichola longworth when he was speaker of the house.furthermore, his posit gave the line it real point -- the point be that the speakership in longworth day was not the dingi partisan and money-rais post that it has now become. 
 he trust his cops, and he like them tough.anoth of his famous lines: ". . . the way to treat crimin is "'spacco il capo.'" 
 "peopl tune in and saw the old rizzo," say mr. oxman, the polit consultant.hi most notabl line that night? 
 if al gore is sincer in distinguish his view from that of the other candidates, he will have to lay out his case for a stronger defens in much sharper and more convinc detail.otherwise, voter will be justifi in borrow a line from a previous candid and demand to know of al gore, "where the beef?" 
 if siegfri jerusalem was an unusu agil loge (wotan chief counsel), the chief god himself was unusu inert.jam morri deliv his line with a penetr bariton glint, but he has not yet finish grow into this signific role, and his odd tatti costum did not help him look important. 
 the alleg against mr. zaccaro hadn't yet been made when his wife, herself a former queen prosecutor, was make her vice presidenti bid.mr. zaccaro attorney, robert g. morvillo, borrow her former run mate line "where the beef?" -- itself borrow from a wendi hamburg ad -- in critic the state case. 
 there is a dadaist nonsens letter entitl "the," in which that word has been replac by an asterisk.thus, the epistl open line reads: "if you come into linen, your time is thirsti becaus ink saw some wood intellig enough to get busi from a sister." 
 real lawyer do not enjoy pseudo-courtroom thriller like "jag edge."they endur such drivel by find fault with everi line of courtroom dialogue, object through their popcorn. 
 you'v got to make your charact live.)then execut produc tobi hubner give me a real role with three line of dialogue, to be shot a few night hence."wow, three lines?" say the sarcast sound man, antonio arroyo. 
 rosali is play by carissa channing, 23, a bleached-blond breathtaker. (orvill is play by john mackay, age 39.)as i studi my lines, ms. chan worri that the tight white dress she wear in the scene is too sheer. 
 i say no, but this convinc her i am.th camera is roll into place, and my three line vanish from memory. 
 take two.adrenalin pumps, and i dare to ad lib, chang the line from "i don't think so, madame," to "nah, don't think so, lady, all right?" 
 ms. brown is quit effective, and doubli so to those who rememb her as she appear 10 year ago in "the turn point," when she was the naiv newcom who won mr. baryshnikov heart.you can see that toni is a playboy, with his leather jacket and his red sport car and the kind of come-on line onli teen-ag and intern celebr dancer would dare tri even on gullibl junior ballerinas. 
 in this, his first play, he take the role of the obnoxious, abus host of a radio call-in show, and let other actor play the oblig colleagu at the station and the lonely, sometim dement listen who call in.thi look like a real play, with david jenkin equipment-fil radio studio; with actors, under the direct of frederick zollo, walk on and off deliv lines; and with a possibl dangerous, certain derang fan burst into the studio for a face-to-fac confrontation. 
 joe biden was an earli expon of the charact issue, use it as a tool to undermin ed mees nomin to attorney general (mr. mees past acts, he intoned, were "beneath contempt").but charact came back to destroy mr. biden as a plagiarist, who even as he was withdraw from the race claim as his own robert kennedi "bend history" line, a borrow mr. biden had admit day earlier. 
 but as part of pbs wonder "american masters" series, "the ten-year lunch" is least success at what other show in the seri (notabl the season open on isaac bashevi singer) have done so well -- profil their subjects.w are introduc to a cast of characters, we hear a few of their famous lines, but we get onli the vaguest sens of them as people. 
 there someth decad about the algonquin round tabl -- so much partying, so mani arch word games, such desper cynic style consciousness.aft all those funni lines, whi should you end up feel sad? 
 if your muse isn't up to it, no matter.th bard of les-loges-en-josas, france, stephen powelson, stand ready, abl and more than mere will to pour the first 14,300 line into your ear, from memori -- and in classic greek.soon, he hopes, he will have commit the final 1,393 line to memory. 
 he has return to the u.s. at least 40 time in the past 10 year to do the "iliad" thing, usual for not more than an hour or two, at school and colleges.at these exhibit of mnemon prowess, a resid classicist random pick a line from the epic, and mr. powelson take it from there. 
 at the age of 10, he says, he memor in one week an entir year homework in sunday-school bibl studies.in prep school, he memor the first 100 line of the "iliad," took three greek cours in his senior year and won a nation prize for his greek. 
 he has perform at the univers of arkansas, colorado and massachusett and at tulan university, among other places.hi wife of 47 years, esther, say that mr. powelson is constant master new lines. 
 although it amalgam of recipes, crafts, fashion, advic and homemak tip will sound familiar -- "free in this issue!complet chicken cookbook and 8 recip card to save," read a cover line from the prototyp -- first promis a cleaner, more readabl packag with less ad clutter. 
 time and again he had rehears an answer refer to the victim in his famili and assert to mr. bush, "i don't need ani lectur from you about crime."h didn't deliv the line or even refer to his father or brother. 
 i am that man."h never use the lines, although -- like the plan answer to the question about crime -- he use them in subsequ speeches. 
 that not to impli that he doesn't do well with lucki long, chaotic medit on meditation.but even befor he utter a singl line of dialogue, mr. irwin astonish with his eloquence. 
 befor you even arriv at a party, of course, you must -- accord to ms. roan -- "practic your handshake."then deliv your open line, which you have practic beforehand as well. 
 they were well-suppli with blue-and-whit bush-quayl signs, red-white-and-blu pompon and miniatur american flags.high school cheerlead leap at mani applaus lines. 
 and without a budget deal, busi leaders, economist and even some of mr. bush own econom advis agre with mr. greenspan that financi instabl could quick follow.wal street and foreign market discount the vice presid tough anti-tax rhetor dure the campaign, assum he would drop his "read my lips; no new taxes" line after the election. 
 a pentagon spokesman says, "we have no specif solut for doe."th line at the nsc is, "doe has the lead on that right now." 
 hors are run to win purs and bets, not break records.th race track, where the talk is saltier than the french fries, has a stock line for everything, and "time is onli import in prison," cover that. 
 the consum product giant sought to becom a much bigger forc in the cooki business, develop a duncan hine soft cooki meant to challeng nabisco domin in the market.nabisco respond ferociously, with it own "almost home" line, and duncan hine market share end up be miniscule. 
 he has been twit his oppon for not know a dairi goat from a mountain goat.hi favorit line: "i'd like to see leo tri to milk that sucker." 
 this line has been move sharpli upward as more peopl crowd it from below.to steal a line from alan reynold of polyconomics, so mani peopl have been get rich there isn't room for them all in the top fifth. 
 here as elsewhere, mr. bush attack on gov. dukaki over such issu as crime and defens have hurt the democrat, but the poll show that the economi is one area where voter were more like to react favor to the governor as they learn more about his positions.perhap for that reason, mr. bush this week has been seek to appropri mr. dukaki own applaus line, tell support in wisconsin and michigan that "georg bush is on your side." 
 in this era of media-bashing, mr. sohmer was shrewd to make his investigator-hero an fbi agent (robert loggia) rather than, say, a washington post reporter.a for tv news, it get bash in the person of a brunette-bombshel produc (stepfani kramer) who curl her rubi lip around line like: "get me a closeup of those stiffs!" 
 it is ms. digg contention, though, that florenc was no plaster saint, and in her skill dramat the playwright illumin the mani side of this complex, driven woman.ms. digg make her point of view clear in the open line of the play, when someon come on stage recit henri wadsworth longfellow laudatori poem about the "ladi with the lamp," and anoth charact call the poem "sentiment drivel." 
 washington, mo.: anoth high school fill with teen-ag yell as he step out on a stage drape with so mani flag i thought he might wear one.whil he clear his throat to launch into his drugs, death and defens speech, reporters, a beat ahead, whisper his familiar open line: "with all this excitement, i can feel what it'll be like on elect night." 
 augusta, ga.: thomp.two motorcycles, nine car and vans, and two buse are roll resolut to the next stop, the regenc shop mall next door to a muffler shop -- and, please, we alreadi thought of the "midas him!" line. 
 it was just weird, in the sens of popular cultur find a bizarr way to express it racial ambivalence.on of the last minstrel was al jolson, describ by his biographer, pearl sieben, as a man who "need applaus the way a diabet need insulin" -- a line that might also describ michael jackson. 
 stump appear are chosen to highlight the messag visual and to look good on the night network television-new shows.snappi line are insert in the speeches, some of them test in advance, that are almost guarante to becom "sound bites." 
 soon, right on schedule, the bush messag will switch to taxes.th posit line will be that mr. bush won't rais taxes; the negat one will be that tax have gone up faster under mr. dukaki in massachusett than they have in the nation generally. 
 even with all this go for it, however, "reckless" doesn't measur up to mr. luca previous play, the excel "blue window."th playwright still show a deft hand with dialogu -- i especi like the way his off-spe line make you laugh first and wonder whi later. (for example, when lloyd ask rachel if she see her parents, she answers, "not sinc they died." 
 the confus is symbol by the differ between two former kennedi speech writer now work for mr. dukakis.theodor sorensen, the architect of "ask not . . ." and other soar john kennedi lines, recal an earlier liber of civic oblig and popular communiti goals. 
 the young michael dukaki was inspir by the parti of jack, but built his career in the parti of teddy.and this year he has borrow some of mr. sorensen lines, but more of mr. shrum message. 
 the chain quibbl with the way the ad is promot on the cover, which say "free condom inside" in promin type."spin intent may be honorable," a waldenbook offici says, "but the way the cover line is presented, it appear as though they'r use the featur of the free condom to sell the magazine." 
 and effect last july, the state start put all license-pl proceed direct into it treasuri -- instead of allow the rule parti to skim them first.th 52-year-old mr. mutz, borrow a line from ronald reagan, argu that republican "are the change." 
 "we'r just not get our return on investment," mr. bayh argues.lin like that pleas the republican who show up, sometim rather furtively, at bayh fund-raisers. (one gop attorney in fort wayn blanch visibl when a report ask him his name. 
 you knew one thing: good pitching, which the dodger had, beat good hitting, which was the a previous long suit.that line ought to go over the entranc at cooperstown. 
 a chemic spokesman said, "this transact is consist with chemic anti-apartheid south african polici in everi way."h note a line in the bank polici statement: "we have a polici against make loan to privat non-bank corpor for their oper in south africa." 
 justic liaco and abram have also object to the "good faith" except to the u.s. suprem court "exclusionari rule."in one murder case, for example, they exclud from trial evid from a search conduct by polic in good-faith relianc on a warrant issu by a magistr who, it was later noticed, had not struck through certain line on the print warrant form. 
 i becam rather fond of m, a casual self-deprec fellow play by patrick o'connell.h keep humor and horror nice in balanc for 90 minut and let the terror palpit through his lines. 
 the big institut investor aren't buy wall street line about now be a great time to jump back into the stock market with both feet. 
 as bedtim approaches, the xus sit togeth on a worn sofa and entertain their visitor by sing their favorit music, a chines opera call "marriag of a goddess."mr. xu stumbl occasion read his line and has to ask his wife for help. 
 for high british, it always, "oh, no" -- or "oew noew."sometimes, it a line from the script. 
 neat print on the wall was: "i ain't never gonna love nobodi but cornel crawford."th line stuck with her -- "so funni and dear, and who cornel anyway?" 
 all of punditri is treat lloyd bentsen crack that dan quayl is "no jack kennedy" as the best line of the campaign, but for the wrong reasons. 
 (at least the aid appreci the absurdity.th prize for best line of the night goe to bush pollster robert teeter. 
 bentsen and quayl polish their line for tonight 90-minut vice presidenti debat in omaha, neb. 
 "i don't believ it," said judith penniman, the abc producer, "we got a reader!"translation: abc anchor peter jen read the bentsen line himself, with no accompani pictur from his troop in the field. 
 it close friday at 4, down 5/8.the regina lesson may be that glow stori about compani should be read more for the one or two line of caution than for the posit comments. 
 then the women make their first major mistake.instead of lead their quarri line by line through the row of question on the registr form, they depart. 
 dukaki strategist believ that their man won the first debat but that they were outgun in the "spin patrol" claim afterward.they say their mistak was in react to the debat itself while the bush crew stuck to a prearrang line, and they vow to emul the gop tactic in next month final encounter. 
 all of these product were excel -- funny, well-acted, with good stories.yet, line after line of the dialogu was load with gratuit and explicit profanity. 
 the bank took out an ad in the time of london last week, which ran opposit excerpt from mrs. eliot edit of the letters.th ad reprint a line from a letter written in 1917: "i am get along nice in my work at the bank and i like it." 
 silence."and then the presid rememb a line he had use year before, someth about how he wouldn't make age an issu in the campaign, he wouldn't exploit his oppon youth and inexperience. 
 perfect, mr. ail told him, and the presid sudden seem to grow in self-confidence.mr. reagan use the line, and it was a zinger. 
 the rhetorician in the socialist camp have gotten so full of themselv late that some had come to doubt this point.in a much-quot line she said it would be folli to tri to fit the european countri "into some sort of identikit personality." 
 "we did consum research befor we made a price decis on good morning, vietnam and were a bit surpris to find such a high desir for ownership," say carol black, a disney video executive."som peopl were big robin william fans; other didn't get all the funni line the first time and want to view it over and over again. 
 mr. scala and his boss, mr. hohorst, who is 33 year old, both say they are too busi to read lengthi econom news stori and analyses.they reli main on the frantic financi wire services, and often they read onli the headlin -- a singl line of shorthand that appear on the veri bottom of their comput screens, in whatev space isn't taken up by a long list of currenc price quotes. 
 he knew, we knew, that the ayatollah would not live forever, and that iran is one of the most import countri in the middl east.w knew open some line to iran was in the nation interest; now that the war is wind down near everyon agrees. 
 as a young man he had turn out comic stori for cheap magazin and newspap at the rate of one a day; this work got him through medic school and kept his impoverish famili -- his parents, a sister, four brother -- aliv in their cramp moscow apartment.at the end of his life, the celebr playwright and author of 588 stori could bare write four line befor collaps in fatigu and pain. 
 mr. iron turn in a pair of bravura perform as the twins, but neither of them redeem this somber piec of work.poor geneviev bujold, the drug-snorting, authent canadian actress who come between them, is requir to say line like this, with a straight face: "i'v been bad, i need to be punished." 
 but as sure-foot as this product dramat scene are, it choral passag are lame.which is not to say that the 12 elder in the chorus can't project their lines. 
 antigon is play as a feminist, inveigh against "the law of the male sex."everi line about creon cruelti is render in the languag of the polic state, everi refer to antigon sex cloak in feminist rhetoric. 
 we didn't give john-john the award for all time, but just for 1988.take a look at the cover line again, and take comfort from it. 
 "the children come to school in plastic."on of their favorit song has the line: "it rain and rains/until the stone will break." 
 thus, when mr. dukaki went to annapoli wednesday for a statehouse-step ralli to taunt mr. bush for back out of the presidenti debat that was to have been held there, access was control by issu ticket through democrat leader for the best view area, which was rope off.th bush campaign, meanwhile, has taken to distribut case of air horn to support that can be sound whenev the vice presid deliv an applaus line so there will be a din of enthusiast cheer on televis -- and also can be use to drown out the chant of ani dukaki support who might materialize. 
 mr. bush doe sometim address substant issues, as he doe today in a well-receiv speech to san francisco conserv commonwealth club attack mr. dukaki record in manag the massachusett economy.but the speech, one of the most effect of mr. bush campaign, illustr it care style: the vice presid read it from a teleprompter, stick care to his prepar text and thus not risk ani distract ad lib like his pearl harbor day gaff of last week, or fumbl ani of the line design for televis consumption. 
 marilyn quayle, defend her husband mediocr academ record, told an interview last weekend that fdr "fail the bar exam seven times."yesterday, sen. quayl pick up the same line, say that roosevelt flunk "a number of times." 
 but then again that may be difficult.it use to take a minut on televis and one or two line in the newspap to give a weather report. 
 the new york shakespear festiv summer product of "king john" has given mani theatergo -- myself includ -- the chanc to be virgin again.it not often we get to see a shakespear play whose plot, characters, famous line and legendari interpret aren't rattl around our brain befor the curtain goe up. 
 it doesn't seem to matter if you'd been the econom advis to a presid under whom the economi failed, or are affili with a consult firm that can't come close to an accur econom forecast.with a snappi line about how mr. bush would need to reinstitut child labor, annex other countri or toler 20% inflation, you could get your lick in. 
 in my best imit of ethel merman, i sang a few chorus about be tired, and then drift into a noisi sleep on ms. raiken shoulder.sh elbow me and i awok with a start, belt out a few more off-key line about fatigu and life. 
 when he said he had left behind "thing you can't put in a suitcase," the audienc member wept unabashedly.they cheer yoli line about the yanqui and roar at the joke about "weepi argentines"; they turn this astut but modest play into an occas for a communal catharsi -- which is exact what aristotl said theater was invent to be. 
 offici here vigor dismiss ani parallel between the reform they oppos with forc in czechoslovakia and the soviet chang now be push by mr. gorbachev.despit glasnost, the new offici open about controversi topics, there were few articl in the media about sunday anniversary, and the one that were publish repeat the old offici line about "render internationalist assistance" to a grate czechoslovak people. 
 but the convent isn't seen boost senat prospects; republican have no sure pickup to offset like loss in virginia and nevada, and say they will do well to maintain the 54-46 democrat edge.candid will adopt reagan "we are the change" line to address voter desir in the poll for a new direction. 
 ms. richard had them roll in the aisl with her lacer jibe at georg bush silver foot in the mouth, etc.not to mention the best and the brightest of them -- the ginger roger line -- which brought down the house. 
 she just did it backward and in high heels.'"on woman in particular won't forget that line: the woman from whom ms. richard lift it -- tv journalist and author linda ellerbee. (it part of her lectur repertoire.) 
 ms. ellerbe also report that she spun around and warn the woman she was go to steal that.thi is, needless to say, not exact the same as appropri a line and then deliv it in tone brim of the pride of authorship -- in a keynot address.ms. ellerbe learn in advanc that ms. richard was plan to use the line, whereupon she inquir as to whether ms. richard was plan to cite the source. 
 after all, if ann richard and co. had been old-fashion enough to say, "as linda ellerbe tell us" or even "as i heard in a lectur somewhere," whi then the new york time columnist and a great mani other citizen probabl wouldn't have gone around talk about the formid wit and wisdom of ann richards.in the day follow the speech there was a certain amount of to-do about anoth line -- the famous silver-foot-in-the-mouth comment, which a washington writer claim came from his book. 
 nor is ms. richard alone.recal that walter mondal and speech writers, without bat an eye, filch and offer as mr. mondal own a line from a speech given by lane kirkland onli a day earlier: i.e., "where the beef?" (flash epigram have chang some sinc stevenson time, you'll note.) 
 recal that walter mondal and speech writers, without bat an eye, filch and offer as mr. mondal own a line from a speech given by lane kirkland onli a day earlier: i.e., "where the beef?" (flash epigram have chang some sinc stevenson time, you'll note.)among republicans, barri goldwat has the best reason to know the price you can pay for appropri lines.presidenti contend goldwat would have been a lot better off in 1964 if he had onli seen fit to credit the real author of what turn out to be the most self-destruct line ever utter in a campaign speech: "i would remind you . . . extrem in the defens of liberti is no vice." 
 presidenti contend goldwat would have been a lot better off in 1964 if he had onli seen fit to credit the real author of what turn out to be the most self-destruct line ever utter in a campaign speech: "i would remind you . . . extrem in the defens of liberti is no vice."th real author, whose line sen. goldwat chang slightly, was cicero.had the senat not neglect to mention this fact, the line, needless to say, would have been treat with the respect usual accord the wisdom of the ancient rather than as the extremist froth of the candid of the lunat right. 
 but my fellow americans, this is not a crime-does-not-pay story.b caught out lift line doesn't mean there no profit in it. 
 after all, despit a few rumbl here and there, the million who heard ann richard continu to credit her as the wit who said that about ginger and fred.ms. richard seem to know it, too, for on a sunday talk show a few day after the convention, she did allow as how she had taken a line -- the silver-foot-in-the-mouth one -- from lili tomlin co-author in "sign of intellig life in the universe." (she made no mention of ginger and fred). 
 all the same, the vice presid continued, mr. dukaki repres "the fail liber ideolog of the past.""som say this isn't an elect about ideology," mr. bush said in his address to the convention, mock a line from the dukaki accept speech. 
 "it noth new," say peter teeley, an old associ and former press secretari to the vice president.h recalls, with tender sentiment, a bush line from the 1980 campaign. 
 some of these name are drop for a reason, but most are there primarili to show off mr. wilson own literari breadth.th techniqu reach a level of distract absurd when, to elucid tolstoy increas contempt for his wife, mr. wilson quot three line of a poem by philip larkin, an english librarian born 12 year after tolstoy die and who could not be more remot from yasnaya polyana in sensibl than a martian. 
 in a warm receiv speech that seem sought to distanc him from reagan administr civil-right policies, mr. bush outlin what he call a "posit civil-right agenda," and promis to have "minor men and women of excel as full-scal partners" dure his presidency.on win line from that speech: "whenev racism rear it ugli head -- howard beach, forsyth county, wherev -- we must be there to cut it off." 
 everi bell and whistl in the orchestr bag of trick is heard.sometimes, the larg cast, 13 or so depend on how you count the extra and the offstag alto voice, sing all at onc but with differ lines. 
 meanwhile, sen. domenici, a longtim backer of deficit-reduct measures, work himself into a "no tax increase" postur to help his own cause.gop strategist eddi mahe suggest bush err by delay his choic until the last minute: the convent is a stage show, and "you ought to figur out who the star are so you can write their lines." 
 indeed, his strategi seem to be not to say veri much at all about foreign policy.hi "well-received" atlant council speech in june was littl more than a routin defens of nato, while his accept speech in atlanta devot all of seven sentenc to u.s. security. (his boldest line -- that drug are more of a threat than the sandinista -- was a rewrit of jess jackson.) 
 it a bizarr idea: "leav it to beaver" with a new cast (say tom selleck and suzann somer as ward and june, and emmanuel lewi as the beaver).think of "gilligan island" as america "macbeth," a show you'd want to see again and again, with differ thespian give their own person interpret of immort line like "gee, skipper." 
 a magazin ad for lee has a graini appear and show a nighttim scene in which a blond in tight-fit jean lean against a 1950s-vintag covertible.th copi line: "place to go. 
 "we believ the yield on the long-term treasuri bond could fall below 7% in late 1989 and perhap declin signific in later years," say martin j. mauro, manag of research.but to mani analysts, the yardeni outlook end with the last line of a nurseri rhyme -- "and the dish ran away with the spoon." 
 if he look for other ideas, there are republican who might have some.sen. ted kennedi of all peopl actual stole a gop line, in atlanta, when he said democrat "are commit to the ideal that all of us can advanc togeth -- and none shall be left behind."th man who has said that for years, who call it his "good shepherd line," is jack kemp. 
 "it make us sound inferior," mr. mackenzi says, "and yet diet coke has been reformul at least as mani time as diet pepsi."cok say nbc has ask it to delet the controversi reformul line from ani futur taste-test ad and that it will compli with that request. 
 over a plate of red, white and green pasta -- the color of the italian flag -- he explain how mass-market retail fit in with these schemes.advertis on his three nation televis network could add line like "avail at the standa," to their sale pitches, he says, share the ad cost with the depart store. 
 but congressman richard gephardt of missouri, a rival for the democrat nomination, onc charg that the massachusett governor foreign polici experi was limit "to negoti with new hampshir gov. sununu over a nuclear power plant."in an otherwis strong performance, mike dukaki did littl last week to prevent georg bush from steal that line dure this campaign. 
 the gimmick?h has no voice, so he won't have to speak ani dumb lines. 
 the intent is to blur ideology, contrast the massachusett governor ethnic past and his record as an execut with mr. bush elit upbring and his recent servic in the shadow of presid reagan.each line the dukaki campaign etch into it portrait of the candid is suppos to produc a contrast with mr. bush. 
 ad for pro penn emphas they'r more durabl than regular penns.for instance, beneath a print ad featur a shot of a doghous is the line: "pro penn go to the dog 30% slower." 
 "it is time for america . . . to reassert progress valu and reinvest in it people," it says, but onli "within a strong commit to fiscal responsibility."th democrat do take a rhetor bow to the rev. jackson stump-speech line about "econom violenc against poor and work people," but they reject his propos to rais tax on "the veri richest americans" or to freez defens spending. 
 who would have guess women and wit were part of the democrat parti of 1988."georg bush was born with a silver foot in his mouth" is the onli memor line to come out of this convent so far. 
 it share of the bar-soap market slid to about 11% from 17%.it has rebound a bit to 13.5%, however, sinc the compani return to the "aren't you glad you use dial?" line a few year ago. 
 it has rebound a bit to 13.5%, however, sinc the compani return to the "aren't you glad you use dial?" line a few year ago.sara lee corp. walk away from the line "nobodi doesn't like sara lee" and experi with other jingl that never quit caught on with consumers. 
 anybodi who know anyth about polit convent know that the affair cannot truli move forward until a single, wri line from david brinkley defin it, as he has sinc the begin of time (meaning, of course, sinc the begin of television). 
 it also claim to have score a market share victori in the intensifi orang juic wars.tropicana, a unit of seagram co., brought suit against atlanta-bas coca-cola over a line use in advertis for coca-cola new minut maid premium choic orang juic that describ the pasteur product as "orang juic straight from the orange." 
 some say 70%.as the reader ponder these lines, at least three out of 10 boat peopl just set out to sea will most probabl not make landfall. 
 divid up among various member of the cast in what seem a deliber random fashion, it is use to suggest mean without ever state them.much of it is spoken by a pair of narrat (sheryl sutton and phillipp chemin), who, from a place at the side of the stage, inton their line in voic that, at onc expressionless and intimate, have less to do with explan than with ritual. 
 tropicana product inc. fire anoth volley in the orang juic wars, accus coca-cola co. food divis of fals and decept advertis in a lawsuit file in u.s. district court in new york.at issu is a line use in advertis for coca-cola new minut maid premium choic orang juic that describ the pasteur product as "orang juic straight from the orange."bradenton, fla.-bas tropicana, a unit of seagram co., claim the line violat an earlier appeal court rule in favor of atlanta-bas coca-cola against tropicana. 
 ms. keeton say her market depart design the ad, but she was the one who made the decis to sustain the suspens throughout the ad.originally, she says, the first line of the ad was, "of cours she not realli 70." 
 but she thought, "whi wast it?so i got rid of the line." 
 the "three week of stagnation," as the period between the two articl is now known in the soviet union, show perestroika for what it truli is: a parti line -- no less but no more either.a better line, to be sure, a line one can support with greater sincer than most other line -- but a line nevertheless. 
 the three week of stagnat indic how far mr. gorbachev may have to go in erad the curs of soviet and russian reformers.that curs is best express by pushkin immort close line of "bori godunov": "the peopl are silent." 
 the text are often shorten to make the book cheaper to produce, leav a skeleton of the origin story.mr. lang note that there are at least 10 heavili illustr edit of the snow white stori in which the whole tale is told in 12 pages, with onli a few line on each. 
 newspap editor onli seem cavali when they dump your favorit comic strip -- the one you'v been follow faith for 23 year -- and substitut some dumb cartoon with stupid gag line and chicken-scratch drawings. 
 it is the world lead corpor raider talking, address the crowd on finance.on almost expects, at some point, to hear that unnerv line, greed is good. 
 fight back, texaco manag have adopt a slogan: "we'v got the energy."it sound more like a line, some say, that a tv network would use to tout it fall lineup. 
 other think the texaco boast is a rather bold claim for a compani that run out of oil.in ani case, mr. icahn has his own line for texaco: "catch a fall star." 
 accord to a new studi by michael cunningham, a univers of louisvill psychologist, the magic formula is a simpl "hi," follow by someth equal innocuous, such as "what do you think of the band?"although few men realiz it, calcul clever come-on turn most women off, prof. cunningham says. (he note that when it come to women pursu men, however, just about ani open line will do-except, perhaps, "you remind me of someon i use to date.") 
 to gather this wisdom, prof. cunningham first sent oper out into the field to test a varieti of convers starter on the patron of chicago singl bars.then, in a lab setting, he gaug the reaction of 40 men and 47 women to specif lines, includ "would you like to listen to my compact disks?"particip were ask to rate one anoth accord to 13 criteria as they use the lines: did the speaker seem shrewd or naive? 
 would the speaker make a good parent or not?"peopl realli do make almost instantan judgment of a person personality" base on open lines, maintain prof. cunningham. 
 lesli thomas, a junior at pennsylvania state university, agre that a straight approach is general best."i don't think line work," she says. 
 somewhat tamer than the previous midler-disney collaborations, "big business" is still peppi enough.a citi sadie, the corpor queen, ms. midler get the most pointed, and the funniest, lines, which she deliv like the season pro she is. 
 though della femina is onli a fraction of the size of giant like young & rubicam and ogilvi & mather, mr. della femina flair has garner the agenc more than it share of headlines.mr. della femina becam a fixtur on tv news report about acquir immun defici syndrome, for example, after his agenc creat the line, "i enjoy sex, but i'm not readi to die for it," for lifestyl condoms. 
 the dukaki peopl are go to need all the help they can get.instruct is an ail line -- a bit of hyperbole, no doubt -- that mr. goodman say he will never forget. 
 mark twain got a laugh when he call rumor of his death "exaggerated."th line wouldn't have been near so good if he had simpli label them untrue. 
 shakespear famous line about kill the lawyer may have been superseded. 
 take, for example, the subject of this week discuss -- the hero adventure.in one eleg line, mr. campbel link the celtic knight, wander in the forest, to telemachus, set off to find his father, to moses, climb the mountain. 
 mr. sullivan didn't return call seek comment.ms. bruck appar ad a line stipul that femal drexel employees, as well as other women, were present, but she didn't retreat from her other statement on the subject of call girls. 
 neither the program nor the critic review mention the name of the young woman who turn the page for the piano accompanist.she, too, was superb, perform a most difficult job; there were sever passag where she had to turn the page back for a repeat of sever line of music. 
 and i can tell you that i'm an absolut nervous wreck everi time she performs.i have her practic the last two line on each page, so i can learn exact when to turn the page -- just one of the trick to this trade that i'v learn the hard way. 
 there is someth to be said for experienc shakespear view of the king who rule england between the 1390s and 1485 as a unit, watch the same actor grow from the layabout princ hal into the heroic henri v, the same actress move from the blush bride of henri vi to the embitt hag who curs richard iii.it interest to hear the line summar event of the past while they are still fresh imprint on your mind by the play you saw just a few hour before. 
 the play are not so much updat as they are de-dated; and although mr. bogdanov is clear tri to make this old news seem fresher to contemporari audiences, they nonetheless tend to snicker when they first notic the comput termin or the plastic shop bag that has crop up without warning.th fact is that audienc don't need such gimmicki "relevance" if they are given clear, care thought-out line read coincid with care plan stage movement. 
 in a follow-up show, he point to two addict and say if they tri to rob his house, "i'd blow their head off."both line get wild applaus from the audience. 
 the sec said that the debartolo have been uncooperative, and had heavili redact document that the sec requested.among the exhibit attach by the sec is one full page label "bilzerian-hammermil closing" in which all but three line were delet by the debartolo or their lawyers. 
 most of his republican colleagu are cower wimpish befor organ labor tv-ad onslaught.thi bit of demagogi featur a line about golden parachut for the boss and noth for the worker -- as if there were somewher a law mandat golden parachutes, or prohibit labor from seek whatev notif and sever procedur it want through collect bargaining. 
 she best with the minor actors, who have the best parts.ms. brennan get the funniest line. 
 everyon jump on larri speak for his confess that he put word into the mouth of presid reagan without even bother to tell him.on can certain jump on mr. speak for his appar unawar of the enorm of his transgression, at least to judg by the throwaway line in which he describ the dirti deed. 
 instead, govern offici threw up their hand and claim indirect trade was beyond their control.th new offici line is that onc taiwan product leav the island, the govern has no say over where they go. 
 nice, clean american kid will be free of this foreign impos evil.th mexican who write these line has been accus of be a gringo lover. 
 "i see no reason whi this cours should not be followed," rep. ted weiss comment predictably.consum advoc sidney wolf recit a familiar line from memory: "american famili are too import to be left to a reagan administr that seem to give defer to the drug industry." 
 last fall, befor most of it experienc player ran out of eligibility, it won three major competit in a row, lose final to texa a&m in novemb at the super bowl of meat judging, the international, held in ibp inc. meat cooler at dakota city, neb.that got illinoi some good press in trade public like meat plant magazin and drover journal, but nari a line in the daili illini, the school newspaper. 
 the page show the eleg interior of an expens car.there, just slight to the northeast of the leather-cov steer wheel, and west southwest of the burl walnut dashboard trim, are six line from the second vers of the marvel poem. 
 there, just slight to the northeast of the leather-cov steer wheel, and west southwest of the burl walnut dashboard trim, are six line from the second vers of the marvel poem.w know that these line are by none other than andrew marvel becaus the name of the poet appear at the end where the author name is customarili found in poetic quotations. 
 it is just one interpret of many."h goe on: "if, in the line from marvel the garden, the car manufactur had determin that this line is imperfect in their own view of what was necessary, then they could argu that inde they were mere perfect the poem and that marvel would see that this was a better version for this particular purpos than the one he had in fact written. 
 it certain not an unpreced condition.mani famous text have been chang in the transmiss in order to give more mean to the origin lines." 
 aileen ward, schweitzer professor of the human at new york university, also was enraged."chang the word innoc to comfort is a dread comment on the trade-off between the real inspir of marvel and the debas standard that his line are be twist to uphold." 
 but i don't realli consid it a veri grave infring of morality."al the critics, however, seem to believ that the line "transmitted" by mr. macdonald in his advertis campaign are somehow inferior to the version that appear in anthologies. 
 surely, for soviet audiences, jim is even more of an exot charact than amanda, sinc young men of 24 here tend to be frighten cynic about their prospects.moreover, jim line about power and money be the point of democraci got a huge appreci laugh here, as it is the veri stuff of mikhail gorbachev "perestroika." 
 the exchang are disjointed, quirky, vivid, fill with harold pinter paus and emot as genuin as the blacktop.and line by line, bit by bit, the charact of the cop develop (even if it is in super slow-mo, requir week of watching). 
 he even talk like the other policemen: the anc, he says, is control by communist and manipul by moscow, which want to turn south africa into a marxist state.but peter and his fellow anc defector can go beyond that standard rhetor with a line that is much more valuabl to the police: "if i would see my younger relat join the anc," he says, "i'd tell him to go back home, that he shouldn't go through the same thing i did." 
 and if you don't, larri speak will."a white hous aid (anonym of course) say the presid ad lib the speak line. 
 fan of the first season will recal a similar scene in which cliff instruct theo on the valu of a dollar by hand him a roll of play money and then take back a few bill everi time theo list anoth necess of his propos bachelor lifestyle.to compar these scene is to conclud that theo is still brash, the line are still clever, mr. cosbi can still clown his way through worthwhil parent lessons, and the show still has a drolli astut tone. 
 she was just "discovered," deliv her actor boyfriend resum to a talent agent.now she is suppos to read two lines: "i'm the new clean lady" and "i can't work here -- this place is a mess." 
 now she is suppos to read two lines: "i'm the new clean lady" and "i can't work here -- this place is a mess."unfortunately, ms. schroeder forget first one line, then the other. 
 the fabric have been around for years, but have "slip into low profile" and lost ground to minnesota mine & manufactur co. better-known scotchgard treatment, accord to cynthia gray, a du pont public specialist.du pont believ women today care less about have a spotless sofa -- the old promot line -- and more about carefre live styles, she says. 
 in earli 1987, mr. steinhardt bad lag the market.then, he bought the bull line that overvalu stock could go higher. 
 oklahoma basketbal coach billi tubb like a good straight line as well as he doe run up score on opponents, so at a press confer the day befor his team play kansa in the ncaa championship game here monday night he brighten when he was ask if he thought god might be on kansa side in the showdown to come. 
 listen to the left itself cheer.in the new republ last month, barbara ehrenreich, co-chair of the democrat socialist of america, quot approv a line that what the democrat need is "a littl class warfare." 
 speak from the chicago offic of centel lawyers, mr. fraze said his compani adopt a sharehold right plan last august that basic give the compani time to consid takeov propos and also protect against two-tier offers.borrow a line from corpor raiders, mr. fraze said: "our goal is to increas sharehold value, and we believ we have an outstand record in that regard." 
 philip reiss, an attorney for wpp, said the memo was found late tuesday in the file of sever of the depart directors.th document, which appear to be a comput printout and isn't dated, has a line at the top state it is from ed yaconetti, the former chief oper offic of lord geller, to the agenc manag committee. 
 journalist linda ellerbe recal in her book, "and so it goes," read news on televis about the collis of two jumbo jet on tenerif in the canari islands.sh write that she end the report "with a poignant line about 576 peopl whose vacat had end in death." 
 in frustration, mr. wanniski says, he and a few alli rais $10,000 on their own to buy a four-pag newspap spread in charleston, s.c., befor last saturday primary.th spread stress mr. kemp optimist vision of lower taxes, more jobs, opportun for the poor through greater choice, and "move america forward but leav no one behind," mr. kemp "good shepherd" line. 
 he also has creat two attractive, articul charact and he has been most fortun in have them brought to life by accomplish performers.a andrey, robert prosky, a consumm charact actor, has the lion share of the good line and he deliv them with easi relish. 
 when east german erect the berlin wall in 1961, the social democrat willi brandt, then berlin mayor, compar their action with the creation of a nazi-styl concentr camp.but today mani social democrat are welcom gorbachev social with a line that sounds, to american ears, as if it were written from moscow. 
 but uglif is rampant, water shortag loom and suburban traffic is gridlocked, as a crazi quilt of 42 municip govern doe littl to control growth.in the south smaller boom cities, like nashvill and charlotte, the standard line is, "we don't want to be anoth atlanta." 
 in the aftermath of his victori in the south dakota primari and the minnesota caucuses, mr. dole say the campaign might now be abl to put the "p" back."w have a whole new case of bail wire," he explains, in the kind of humor line he simpli can't resist. 
 mr. robertson is not the onli modern expon of crackpopulism; democrat jess jackson and richard gephardt have made serious bid for the crackpopulist vote as well.mr. robertson attempt to eras his past is understandable. (his latest campaign brochur contain sever line of biograph inform but doesn't mention his career as an evangelist. 
 when sir geoffrey ask me that, i said it was all there in our statement.but he ask me "what your best point?" -- he ask me that repeatedly, until i got fed up with him, and i said this is not fair, it not the sort of thing you can answer with one line. 
 the gore tactic limit mr. hart opportun to seiz the stage.though more forc than in last week iowa debate, the colorado democrat went on the defens earli when nbc newsman and debat moder john chancellor character his re-entri into the race with the old song line, "will you love me in decemb as you do in may?" 
 and of cours he could alway simpli start veto bill on explicit procedur grounds, reject those with non-german rider even if it mean close the government.it would be a much less radic act, stephen glazier observes, simpli to cross out a line of some bill and let the court decid whether a presid alreadi has a line-item veto. 
 as for "strang interlude" be more "detailed" than a soap opera, i wonder.th play is famous for have it charact speak their "thoughts" along with their line -- a devic that succeed technic in the film, due to the skill of the cast and a soundtrack filter that distinguish between their speak and "thinking" voices. 
 in a meet on how to trim fat from the budget, omb director miller down an entir two-pound bag of m&ms. . . .jokest suggest this open line for sen. biden next week when he meet neil kinnock, the british politician whose word he cribbed: "stop me if you'v heard this one." . . . 
 the job of vice president, he says, "is insid work with no heavi lifting."hi biggest line these day goe this way: "when ronald reagan want his program pass -- when he want action on his legisl -- he doesn't call george, he call bob." 
 warner also was co-author (with mark twain) of a famous book entitl "the gild age," a label later affix to a whole generation.and he wrote other memor line for which almost nobodi credit him. 
 "it time for the opposit to come out of the street and into the system," he was fond of saying.now his line is, "i tri to come into the system, but the roh administr seem to want to push me back into the streets." 
 the jerki camera, the slide in and out of focus, the jiggl and off-cent shot that onc were consid mistak now are the basi for a style.and the scene aren't shot and re-shot: even flub line are kept in. 
 it show a back view of two young women run along a beach and practic fall out of their swim suits.th copi line: "he love my mind. 
 those familiar with mr. rudolph work and the actor he frequent use will be glad to know that keith carradine, still weari and handsome, show up as hart.geneviev bujold doe an amus turn as an unscrupul art dealer who say line like "you vex me" as onli she can. 
 perhap the most memor line in modern car advertis isn't about big engin or sleek styling, but about upholstery.th line: "rich corinthian leather." 
 "we thought we'd get a lot of factori shift workers," said robert wunderle, supermarket general economist and vice presid for public affairs."th realiti is we found out that the major of shift worker were white collar" and includ transport workers, medic servic personnel, journalist and "just plain citizen that find shop at 11 or 12 at night is a lot quicker than deal with crowd and lines." 
 perhap mr. brinkley mean his stori as a sort of allegori on how the world may end in a whimper.if so, the moral lie in a line by tennyson: "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." 
 -- it never air a televis advertis in new hampshir that might have inocul mr. dole from an imag as a big taxer in a state where opposit to tax is almost a prerequisit for election.on reason the ad never appeared: mr. dole flub a vital line in a tape session. 
 impound weren't subject to possibl overrid by congress, so they were a far greater presidenti power than a line-item veto.presid didn't need to veto budget bills, line by line or otherwise, so long as they could impound. 
 later, he introduc "oliv stone, the academi award win writer of midnight cowboy'" -- who, in fact, had noth whatev to do with that movi and who happen to be on his celebr tour of duti in vietnam while waldo salt wrote the script.most surpris of all, but altogeth typic of the avalanch of error contain in his work, is the plot summari of "network," in which mr. christensen describ anchorman peter finch cri out those deathless lines: "i'v had enough and i'm not go to take it anymore!" 
 it weird to see a great actress thrust into the middl of a sitcom, and you keep root for her to rise abov it.from time to time there are littl flash -- a toss of the head, a hand on the hip, a line deliv with vintag hepburn sarcasm. 
 they can onli hope that his friend will defend him, and that those who might critic will heed his last request, wrench for his family, and urgent for his country.in his close line, jimmi wrote, "pleas tri to understand." 
 mr. campbell, the head of pillsburi restaur businesses, is well-known by insid for an unflatt imit of mr. stafford sit stiffli at his desk and make a point by wave his glass in a predict pattern.at a general hostil meet with secur analyst last month, ronald morrow of smith barney, harri upham & co. introduc mr. stafford by use the ricki ricardo line from the "i love lucy" televis seri of the 1950s: "lucy, you got some splain to do." 
 tommi is an arbitrager, mean that he seek to exploit small differ in the line at differ books, or a favor shift in the line over time.not long ago, for example, he found that the open line had west virginia univers favor over st. joseph univers by 8 1/2 point in basketball. 
 but in each segment there too much histori and not enough incis commentari -- especi for a program that tri to be "definitive."narr line like "comedi make us laugh" don't help the caus much. 
 "they don't brag about their kid or make you watch slide of their vacations" say the headlin of one ad, which show two coupl parti together.anoth ad featur a photo of a father and his adult son and the line, "you use to hate it when he told you what to do. 
 he been grous about the theater throughout his career.thi began in earnest in 1970, when he spoke his first line on a new york stage -- someth unprint about a tulip. 
 the suit also say the men circul sexist literature, like "the smart man creed, or whi beer is better than women."on line: "after you'v had a beer, the bottl is still worth a dime." 
 in 1985, in an "nbc night news" report, he disclos that w.r. (buster) o'brien, the unsuccess republican candid for virginia attorney general, hadn't play footbal for three profession team as mr. o'brien had contended.for that portion of the story, nbc show tape of mr. o'brien at the state prison, includ stand behind bars, with a bode voice-ov say "a politician who add a phoni line to his resum could wind up with an all-expense-paid visit to a place like this." 
 the object of mr. hendra consider rant (i stop count at 163) rang from those unlucki enough to have work with him at nation lampoon, or to have done favor for him, to those humorist guilti of what he see as insuffici artist purity, the entir republican party, "stinking-rich fundamentalist scum," the sinist institut of television, the military, the rich, assort journalist and polit commentators, the middl class and the roman cathol church.with such a startl array of enemies, one might expect author hendra, who dure the 60s did stand-up comedi routin on the ed sullivan show, among other places, to get off a few good lines. 
 a more balanc comparison rise from sir isaiah berlin modern distinct between fox and hedgehog (the european equival of our porcupines).sir isaiah base his scheme of classif on a line from the greek poet archilochus: "the fox know mani things, but the hedgehog know one big thing." 
 the pop-up "sleep beauty" illustr anoth flaw in children books: no one ever proofread them."sever year past and the princess was still asleep," read one line. 
 yesterday, both politician swap joke about their speech "that they had been store up," said toni beeton, the labor parti chief broadcast officer.som in washington had lightheart specul mr. biden would greet mr. kinnock with this line: "stop me if you'v heard this one." 
 it take a littl get use to, this tv adapt of the lengthi eugen o'neil play.th charact not onli speak their lines, they also speak their thoughts. 
 mr. cathcart say he has had "a lot of fun" at kidder, ad the crack about his be a "tool-and-di man" never bother him."it was an absolut marvel line and one i use mani times," he says. 
 it symptom includ a cold sweat at the sound of debate, clammi hand in the face of congression criticism, and faint spell when someon write the word "controversy."a one unidentifi offici clear in the late stage of the diseas told the times: "baker just felt that there were some line in the speech that could be misinterpret and seiz by the press." 
 on an offic wall of the senat intellig committe hang a quot from chairman david boren, "don't hold your ticket til the show over."h onc use that line in a closed-door meet on panama, mean don't shrink from take action against manuel noriega. 
 for the second time, in a movi call "the bear," french director jean-jacqu annaud demonstr just how power pictur can be. ("quest for fire" was the first time.) to be sure, one wonder what kind of man is this, who feel compel to tri to understand the most primit long and instinct in a way that requir the most sophist appreci of visual storytelling.supposedly, he propos the movi to his producer, claud berri, in four lines: "an orphan bear cub. 
 finally, of course, the boss give in, but he still yelling: "i find myself explain anyth to teddi kennedy, you'll be chase stolen car in anchorage."in fact, throughout "mancuso fbi," we don't get word or line -- we get speeches. 
 you'r the real crimin here . . . and what you did wasn't just a murder -- it was a crime against humanity."and, at least onc a show, someon deliv the line "get off that soapbox." 
 for now, defens attorney are tight-lip about their plans.max gitter, anoth gaf defens attorney, said yesterday, "as we go in for the third time, yogi berra famous line is apt: `it deja vu all over again.'" 
 after a slick redesign, the two-year-old magazin has been relaunch this month by it parent company, keizaikai corp., the tokyo-bas compani with interest that includ financi services, book publish and a tourist agency.print in the u.s. and carri the line "the insid japan," busi tokyo octob cover stori was "the world no. 1 customer" -- japanes women. 
 rep. garcia, on trial for briberi and extortion, put statement in the congression record attribut miss vote to "schedul conflicts." . . .a gop senat fund-rais letter from sen. burn of montana is made to appear person written, and it open line is, "pleas excus my handwriting." 
 it works.mr. bartlett manag to more or less maintain molier alexandrin vers form, 12 syllabl line in rhyme couplets. 
 the new beer, introduc this week at a liquor industri convention, is import from switzerland cardin brewery.heidelberg first ad for the brand, which sibra say will compet with import light beer leader amstel light, featur the line "the best tast light beer you'v ever seen." 
 whether a cash crunch might eventu forc the compani to cut it quarter dividend, rais 36% to 75 cent a share onli a year ago, has becom a topic of intens specul on wall street sinc mr. stookey deflect dividend question in a sept. 29 meet with analysts.som view his respons -- that compani director review the dividend regular -- as noth more than the standard line from executives. 
 "an l.a. solution," explain mr. friedman.lin by line mr. friedman weari cynic can be amusing, especi when he rif on the hollywood social scheme -- the way peopl size each other up, immedi cancel the desper one who mere almost made it. 
 harri has avoid all that by live in a long island suburb with his wife, who so addict to soap opera and mysteri novel she bare seem to notic when her husband disappear for drug-seek foray into manhattan.but it doesn't take too mani line to figur harri out. 
 "when wall street turn around short after the opening, there was panic buy in paris."brok said that as the news spread that wall street was move up, trader who had call to place sell order chang their line in mid-conversation, order buy instead. 
 that issue, like racial tension in new york city, will have to cool down, not heat up, befor it can simmer.but i am suggest that they stop requir mr. mason to interrupt his classic shtik with some line about "care for other people" that would sound shmaltzi on the lip of miss america. 
 marubeni hope the movie, "china shadow," which will be about hong kong return to china control, will becom a box-offic success all over the world.to make intern success possible, the film is in english -- even the japanes actor deliv their line in english, whether or not they understand what they are saying. 
 his voic is hoars and his spur drag in the mud, but "georg dickel" slog through the drizzl and cold wind, brave shout his line in a stage shootout with a dastard gunfighter, archriv "jack daniel." 
 fatimata sanga, the elder woman cast as yaaba (which mean grandmother), is stringy, bald and toothless, yet she carri herself with an ether gracefulness.at a news conference, mr. ouedraogo said the script -- which is credit to him -- had to conform to ms. sanga inabl to rememb lines, or much of anyth else. 
 the u.s. custom servic provid you with enough fact to produc a balanc and fair article.th open line, "it sound incredible, even for a boondoggl like uncl sam," set the stage for the act to follow -- a play, in our view, with no substance. 
 pin to the wall of a larg recept room in the soviet embassi here, not far from a heroic portrait of the father of soviet communism himself, hung a poster herald the arriv in washington of the moscow circus.at the bottom in bold print was a line smack unequivoc of free enterprise: "brought to you by snuggle." 
 the roar of the sea and wind -- fieri meteor fli about in the air -- the prodigi glare of almost perpetu lightn -- the crash of the fall hous -- the ear-pierc shriek of the distressed, were suffici to strike astonish into angels.actually, the pen write those line was that of alexand hamilton. 
 for cbs even news, juan vasquez report that "the resid of st. croix are overjoy to see the soldier (1,100 militari polic dispatch by presid bush) from the mainland."th word "residents" is load and mr. vasquez wrap-up line were also unintent revealing: "for . . . tourist the nightmar is ending. 
 "mountain, i want to be in you.togeth we could grow wild and natur things," belinda wrote, among other, much -- steamier, lines. 
 to communic the "break-the-rules" ad series, burger king hire 10 music act -- includ paul shaffer and the world most danger band, crooner mel torm and blue singer john lee hooker -- and let them write their own song for radio spots.whil abandon the standard jingle, that part of the campaign will be tie togeth with the line, "sometim you just gotta break the rules." 
 but the mysteri behind that failur is one reason mr. hatch love junk mail so: it both mathemat precis (result of a mail can be measur to the hundredth of a percentag point) and complet unpredictable.when histor time co. was solicit customers, in a so-cal dri test, for civil war-rel product that didn't yet exist, the compani lawyer insist that the packag includ a microscop line note that the offer was conting on receiv enough orders.that line, the onli differ between the new mail and earlier ones, increas respons by 15%. 
 that line, the onli differ between the new mail and earlier ones, increas respons by 15%.from then on, the compani put the line on all it offers. 
 foreign trade play a veri small role in the u.s. economy.stori about u.s. export in this newspap would carri an apologet line explain that the subject realli was worth discuss even though export account for onli about 4% of the gross nation product. 
 as an attempt to link decadent, die weimar with l.a. pool cultur it was an astonish failur from a talent director.with the except of the energet marvelle cariaga as mrs. begbick and jonathan mack as jack, who gorg himself to death on raw meat, the cast deliv it line without emot or energy. 
 underneath the slick production, the smoki gray and blues, lurk some rather unstylish racism.a cop stori go, this one (written by craig bolotin and warren lewis) dredg up mani clich of the genr and invent mani new ones, most vulgar line spit out by michael dougla with a reason amount of fervor. 
 and japanes star ken takakura admir carri the burden of be the human japanese, the cop who join up with the visitor from new york.oh, yes, there a girl, play by kate capshaw, whose line seem to have been cut drastically, but not near as much as the back of her dresses. 
 con men and charlatan are so thick and so persist that they make camel driver at the pyramid look like swiss maitr d'.typically, the hustl begin with a line reminisc of the pickpocket in the movi "casablanca," who warn a bar patron, "this is a danger place, full of vultures" -- just as he reliev the mark of his wallet. 
 but after kodak second-quart profit plung 85% -- and shock wall street -- onli a tantrum, a vivid demonstr of how he want to cut costs, would suffice."ther no work the middl cours in wartime," mr. chandler asserted, borrow a line from winston churchill. 
 your aug. 17 editori page contain "the poem heard round the world," with richard f. barrett comment on edwin markham poem "the man with a hoe," inspir by millet painting.th theme is in these stir lines: 
 ---in regard to question concern the chang line in markham poem: my sourc was "the britannica librari of great american writing," edit by loui untermeyer. 
 not just after mcfour o'clock."th ad carri a line describ it as "a public servic message." 
 it offer bit of technic information.it show the writer teeter at the tip of the line of words. 
 it would present, by way of "a dispatch from the desk," someth more than dimwit illuminations.of these, there are mani in this book: "when you write, you lay out a line of words"; "put a book togeth is interest and exhilarating"; "how we spend our day is, of course, how we spend our lives. 
 his research, moreover, is sloppy.for instance, he pass along without comment the line that jim jacobs, the fighter late co-manager, was born wealthy. 
 want her film to have the aura of objectivity, ms. franklin-trout begin by adopt the pose of the network anchor.sh deliv open line that presuppos a reasonableness, a fairness, a balance: "tonight, we take you insid the territori to look at the realiti that led to the rebellion." 
 "the on-air promot schedul is the most aggress it ever been," say tom remiszewski, director of advertis and promot at abc sports.in the past week, the network has run a spot promot tonight kickoff, play up the 20th-season theme and featur mr. william sing the line, "are you readi for some football?" 
 "we set off littl comedi bomb that go off later," year later, he explains.so he put in line like "make my doggi day," introduc a pretenti francophil pooch and, when a dog is have puppies, slip in a joke about lamaz breathing. 
 ---you quot ford old line that the edsel was the first "all-new" car from detroit big three in 18 year and that ford spent $250 million to develop it (ford propaganda alway said a quarter of a billion -- it sound bigger that way). 
 unlik "imelda," donizetti "maria stuarda" of 1834 is a steadili inspired, brilliant theatric opera.donizetti imaginari encount between the two queens, mari stuart and elizabeth tudor, slowli heat up into an insult match that culmin with mari great line: "vil bastarda]" it need no translation, which is just as well sinc the album doesn't offer any. 
 mat wilander, the defend champion and no. 5 seed, was ambush by 91st-rank pete sampra in round two.then fourth-seed john mcenroe, tenni perenni bad boy (that english for enfant terrible), was mug by 115th-rank paul haarhuis, a player so obscur he rate nari a line in the game media guide. 
 but for the upscal retail barney new york, which is outfit comedian joan river for her new talk show this fall, the wardrob credit couldn't have come at a better time: barney is in the midst of a big expans beyond the new york area.design often get more than a line zoom by as the credit roll. 
 but for all the then-and-now charm, each stori has to be shoehorn into littl yesterday, today and tomorrow boxes.th fit is often awkward: in their search for a tomorrow to throw in, the produc give us such half-heart line as, "in a futur war, my lai could happen again." 
 he recal with amus the time he liter lock the offic door and dispatch all his market peopl to the field for three days.mr. sharer say he even plan to print up sign for himself and his subordin with novelist john le carr line: "a desk is a danger place from which to watch the world." 
 to emphas the surpris speed with which the chariot is about to be served, the ad signatur is, "the pizza you won't believa."in some ad the line is sung, opera-style. (burnett use opera sing to memor advantag in it current ad for cheer detergent.) 
 at a news conference, general electr co. nbc also describ the structur of it previous announc nationwid sweepstak that will award $2 million in cash and prize and give four peopl one-tim appear on new nbc prime-tim series."we'l see how well they can talk, but the goal is to give the winner at least one line {of dialogue}," said john miller, senior vice president, nbc entertainment. 
 "but he not a corpor animal, so this is perfect for him."mr. gordon himself produc this line to sum up: "as a career move, this is my field of dreams." 
 some contributors, however, are eager to associ themselv with the patriot and educ aspect of their participation.say mr. armour of american express, echo the line of other sponsors: "we love to be patriotic. 
 the author was edwin markham, a hitherto undistinguish poet who becam famous when bailey millard, the editor of the san francisco examiner, accept "the man with the hoe" for public in 1899 and it was immedi reprint all over the world.th poem was inspir by jean francoi millet famous paint of the same name, and it becam a prophecy, when markham end it with these lines: 
 markham die in 1940 at the age of 88."the man with the hoe" cannot be said to have had the impact of the "communist manifesto" of karl marx and friedrich engels, but it did preced the russian revolut of 1917, which seem to answer the question markham pose in the poem close lines. 
 at about the same time, sen. wallop also carri the argument person to mr. bush dure a flight aboard air forc one with the president, who was travel to yellowston park to make a speech.but mr. bush seem preoccupi with other concerns; back in washington sever day later, read a line insert in a speech by an aide, mr. bush said he look forward to mr. fisk arrival. 
 but no one has the same vacation."anoth spot line: "what club med? 
 bbdo servic the account for more than 30 years.it was there that copywrit jim jordan wrote the well-known "ring around the collar" line. 
 in north korea, the propaganda line still contain heavi dose of "anti-imperialism" and other, well-worn revolutionari themes.th line that draw the biggest cheer from the ever-ch crowd at the stadium is, "u.s. 
 "that was hilarious, that was so cruel," say chris kreski, the show 26-year-old head writer.backstage, mr. kreski struggl to come up with a "mom line," the night joke in which mr. ober is interrupt by the voic of his mother ask him to do some gross chore, such as trim her mustache. 
 the compani argu that it foreman needn't have told the worker not to move the plank to which his lifelin was tie becaus "that come with common sense."th commiss noted, however, that dellovad hadn't instruct it employe on how to secur their lifelin and didn't heed a feder inspector earlier suggest that the compani instal special safeti line insid the a-fram structur it was building. 
 the set, design by mr. hall longtim associ eugen lee, has the audienc divid in half, face a central play area.off to one side -- repres the "have-nots" of louisiana -- is a broken-down shack with a woodpil and a wash line. 
 the new technolog repres a consider save over convent offshor product technology.th foundat of the project, a "tension-leg well platform," will be a float structur that is anchor to the seab by steel moor lines, a design that requir far less steel than convent platform do. 
 there is noth easi about run a cruis boat in winter.it take boil water to thaw the frozen line at the clinton overnight berth so that the boat can be brought around to the passeng pier. 
 but she could use a pair of spike to help her navig the ici deck.thre time she tri to throw a dock line to the pier. 
 "give it a prolong blow."proudly, i give the green line a tug. 
 to my horror, i realiz i have pull too hard.down come the green line as the great whistl blare forth, a shrill torrent of sound that won't stop. 
 "there are grown macho men who can skin game but who won't touch an eelpout," say jeffrey gunderson, a repres of the univers of minnesota sea grant extens program, which tri to promot underus fish."they'l cut their line rather than bring it into the boat and unhook it." 
 in the slalom, skier whizz around buoy behind boat go 36 mph for the men and 34 mph for the woman (it a bigger differ than it seems, i was told), shorten their rope on everi pass until everyon got wet.jump soar for distanc off a six-foot ramp after play crack-the-whip with their tow lines. 
 but serious folks, the duval root heartili for each other on the water and are partner in a school for water-skiing-tourna aspir in windemere, fla.sammi won't tri a trick competit unless camill is there to supervis his tow line. 
 he introduc his children to the sport as toddlers, and wasn't about to take no for an answer.when camill balk at take the line at age four, she was left to ponder her choic in the middl of a lake. 
 no one and noth seem prettified.when the widow elma radnor (mari mcdonnell) matter-of-fact fill joe in on the routin mine tragedi at matewan as she hang cloth on the line, her bone-weari is palpable. 
 it is known as an aggressive, tenaci litigator.richard d. parsons, a partner at patterson, belknap, webb & tyler, liken the experi of oppos sullivan & cromwel to "have a thousand-pound tuna on the line." 
 tip off that mr. willabi is "noodling" -- catch fish illeg by snag them in the gill or flesh -- two wildlif offici follow the 250-pound fisherman out to cedar creek lake here.they watch him dive under water with a fish pole and a veri short line and catch two flathead catfish, one 25 pound and the other 30 pounds. 
 perhap not surprisingly, the local often call the warden.whil noodler general drag a line with a big hook on it through the water tri to snag a fish, mr. willabi wade along river bank and lake shore until he find hole where fat catfish are lay eggs.h dive down and poke his rod and a few inch of line with a bait hook into the nest until the fish bites. 
 it wasn't an ordinari tug of war, in which two side pull on opposit end of a length of rope.for this contest a pair of tugboat -- what else? -- haul out to midriv two 3,000-foot nylon lines, each of which was tie to a parachutelik sea anchor to increas drag. 
 a few season ago, he fell into the water wrestl with a larg catch.h hung on to his line -- and land the fish. 
 although these peopl live in big sky countri -- montana, where a town can have a name that ring with heroic confidence, great falls, sunburst, victori -- they never achiev the baptism and resurrect that natur has so often promis charact in american fiction.they may fish and hunt a little, but they'r like to feel sick about it, or bungl the job, or snag a dead deer that drown in the river befor they ever cast a line. 
 hook fli in everi direction.lin becom tangled. 
 it was a silli thought.sit in a desk chair instead of paddl a canoe, pound cursor instead of cast a line, and stare into a comput screen instead of peer into the silveri water of a still lake will never, for either dan or me, replac the natur rhythm of real fishing. 
 in june, hornbi disclos it had a 5.1% stake in manitowoc and said it may seek control of the company.manitowoc, a maker of cranes, power shovels, drag line and other products, is base in manitowoc, wis. 
 mr. coat was on the water but a few minut when he said, "here they are . . . let catch some of em."lin were lower and soon one of the rod sprang to life, and a shini bronz walley was swung on board. 
 so he sell garlic.in one of his stall in a back-alley market deep in seoul south side he sell noth but garlic: hundr of straw "chops" or line hang from the ceiling, each chop with 100 bulb of garlic attach to it, each bulb contain five to 10 cloves. 
 when the time came to launch, we were abl to paddl into a flat ocean between wave sets.then our littl fleet reassembl offshor near a kelp bed, where we learn to hook the bow line of our boat to the live kelp: you take your anchor where you find them in this life. 
 in forests, their goal is to drape their chute over the crown of a tree and slide down through the limb on let-down ropes.but "you never realli know for sure what wait for you," say john driscoll, a former smokejump who onc land flat on his back on the alaskan tundra after his chute line twist and his reserv parachut wrap around his neck. (though he wasn't hurt, "i can still rememb everi second of it -- look up to see the line twist and my parachut a worthless balloon over my head," he says.) 
 glassmast co., lexington, s.c., start trade with the symbol glma.th compani make glass-fib pleasur boats, monofila line and antennas. 
 "this is not government-dict planning," mr. webber says."it use govern as a product partner -- a catalyst -- instead of a drag on the line." 
 so the shark must use stealth to approach it victim from unseen angles.short after 6 p.m., the shark grab a final tuna-head snack off a line and glide off into the gloom. 
 they can, however, be sum up simply: never think of your limit or distant goals; keep tell yourself to go just a littl farther.if the daedalus pilot doe run out of steam, though, he can toss a line to a chase boat, which in theori will be abl to keep the aircraft aloft by pull it to shore like a giant kite. 
 at the best of the local hotels, the door was alreadi lock at 7:30 in the evening.aft sever rings, the proprietor reluct show his guest to a rooftop cell with concret wall and floor, a pile of flea-ridden mattresses, no sheets, two nake bulbs, and a laundri line strung with damp clothes. 
 "grandfath believ in the straight-and-simpl method of fishing.just a basic green line wrap around a wooden rack with cloth from an old shirt or handkerchief use as lure." 
 about three year ago, he near gave up becaus he had noth to sell.now his shelv are full, and towel and cloth hang from a line overhead. 
 mani lobster are aliv and well and live in lost traps, say univers of main researchers.dur the past two years, the scientist have studi "ghost lobster traps" -- lost one that sit on the ocean floor after line to them are sever by storms, pass boat and other strains. 
 self-contain littl villages, the lot of them made up what was for the week a citi rank somewher between the 10th and 15th largest in montana.in camp, draft hors were tether to their wagons, while ride hors and pack hors were set up in temporari corral or hitch to rope line some distanc from the circles. 
 "a two-pound bass on a fly-rod is more fun than a six-pound on a bait-cast rod," said mr. kruger."becaus the rod is so long and you hold the line direct in your fingers, you can feel everi littl fin vibrat a bass makes." 
  " there none there . " he hurri outsid to see if there were ani dri one on the line .
  not too young , i'd say . a new set of nappi sudden appear on the line would certain set the neighbour chatter .
  and the neighbour seem to be veri nice . one had been hang cloth on her line while they were in the backyard and they had got to talk , and she had invit them in for a cup of tea .
  as the two hindus took in the sail , the old man use the last of the boat way to lay alongsid the starboard gangway . jackson , boatswain mate of the watch , took a line , and shout for side boy .
  men tumbl from their station along the deck and the sail spill their wind . below him , he could see the proa , shatter but still afloat , against the starboard bow , men scrambl up line they somehow had manag to attach to rapid .
  lifelin had been fasten across the deck . the two quartermast at the wheel had taken turn of line about their waist and secur the end to ringbolt in the deck .
  their task of keep the bow into the sea had been eas by the sea anchor , but they must still be alert for everi plung movement of the ship . mereweth took a turn of line about himself and fasten it to the weather shroud .
  he could see the crumpl form lie on the deck , spray drive into him , in danger of be wash over the side . mereweth tri to loosen the line that secur him to the shroud and make his way forward to give assist .
  we pass some crumbl hous on the left . the cloth on the line were fli in the wind .
  he didn't catch mani fish , but it hard matter . with his line out and his pole prop in the damp sand , he sat for hour stare at the atlant .
  they were soon becalm and were wait for help when a fish boat appear . without a word the skipper threw the girl a line and began to tow them to shore .
  " catch much ? " carlo threw his line into the water .
  " sometim . " carlo gave his line a tug and then felt it ooz back into the water .
  a whole worm look huge in comparison . a sharp tug at his line made him straighten up sudden . " hey , i got a fish , " he shout , jerk the line through the water . and then sudden there was no weight on the end of the line ..
  when he pull up the hook , it was pick clean . he stood watch it swing slowli back and forth on the end of his line .
  " they'r too smart for you , " he said , and he chuckl . drew start to tell him about some trick he use , but carlo turn his back and rebait his line .
  he didn't need help from that smart aleck . out of the corner of his eye he could see drew steadili draw in his line .
  " catch anyth ? " the leader ask . " just one , " drew answer , point to the fish he had tie up on a line float in the water .
  top load automat washer with essenti cycl and temperatur control , soap or deterg , bleach , water soften , starch , laundri . discuss type of machin dryer , cloth line , cloth pin , cloth pin bag , cloth line support ; type of fabric and color , line space avail , and weather condit . wet laundri in cloth basket , cloth line , cloth pin , cloth pin bag . when wash is dri , remov from line , articl by articl , place pin in bag .
  but between the two of us we somehow got it launch , then load it with blanket , clean diaper and the last of the milk . i sat down in the bow hold the babi , while sidney unti the line and push us out into the current with a paddl .
  it swirl around under the cach and knock over the fish rack , and still it kept rise . dad clung to the line until the boat was level with the top of the cabin door .
  but the loathsom ooz stop just short of his knee . he releas a buoy which carri his ascend line to the surfac , and test the lung . then he start up the line .
  the boat eas alongsid , and the buoy was ginger haul on deck . while one line was fasten around a cleat , command wilkin reach insid for the phone , and a moment later was say , " hello , squalus , this is sculpin .
  the strain had been too great . somewher along the line the strand were part , and at ani minut the cabl might snap complet .
  torpedoman 1st class jess duncan was lower to hook up the new cabl . but as he follow the wire down , his line got foul in those belong to the chamber .
  the chamber was off the bottom . wave were now run some five feet , so the men haul in on the line went with the motion of falcon , let out a littl whenev she rose , pull in as she dip .
  i hope they hadn't come for dinner . it was go to be import for us to stay togeth , so i unwrap the line from my waist , and we tie a length to each raft .
  i had held back the intestin to use for bait . cherri weight his line with a ring and drop a hook overboard .
  it was a mackerel , about 12 inch long . i threw my line out and land a small sea bass .
  strong gust of wind were churn up the ocean . the raft were bob up and down , jerk against the line that held us togeth .
  but thing quick becam bleak again . we enter anoth dri period , and shark carri away our line befor we could catch ani more edibl fish .
  mrs. smith was stand look out of the window , which open on the water . in the distanc a pair of white sailboat were skim along on the breez , and closer at hand a water skier was weav in an intric pattern at the end of a line attach to a motorboat .
  " we'll bring the bristol in , " he call , indic a motorboat sway on it moor . dick wave that he understood , then lower his water ski to the sand and start to uncoil a tangl line , toss an end to alan carlisl .
  set apart by a white picket fenc , a neat littl hous sat secur on a patch of green lawn . but the truck hadn't stop , and as they pass she had notic that cloth were blow on a line behind the hous .
  when robin came out of the orchard onto the dirt road of the villag she met the girl with the black braid again . the mexican girl was hang up cloth on a line behind the last cabin in the row .
  " you came here to fish , " said galkin . " put your line in the water , then sit down and tell me all about yourself . "
  " veri good , " said galkin . he stood up and began reel in his line .
  not onli that , but the midget sub was about to pull the motor launch down , too . " cut the line ! "
  " courtship in the night are also intrigu . the male web-weav spider woo the femal in her web with a seri of tug and tweak on her line .
  it was true that there were no spike in papyrus boat . instead , a block of wood was made fast with rope on top of the reed bundl , and the mast was step into it and secur with line .
  a stay ran to the bow , but none to the stern . instead , a seri of harp-lik line were secur from the top of the mast to the side of the craft , extend about two third of the way back .
  later i spoke to georg , point out that on this voyag no one was oblig to clean up after anyon els . short afterward georg fish tackl , tape record and dirti cloth had been pick off the deck and cabin roof , and he and carlo began haul on the same line togeth .
  no one had the heart to kill it , howev , so it was spare and christen sinbad . with a line tie to it foot , it becam master of the foredeck , while safi kept to the cabin area .
  the brute fought for a moment until the water foam about it tail . the line snap , and the shark disappear into the depth .
  now and then ra heel so violent that everyon grip the stay and hung outboard as a counterweight . the duck was wash overboard on it line time after time , and in the worst of the chao it broke a leg , which yuri later had to set .
  littl knot of men swarm over each boat , take off the canva cover , clear the mast and useless paraphernalia , put in lantern and tin of biscuit . other men stood at the davit , fit in crank and uncoil the line .
  the davit creak , the pulley squeal , and the boat slowli swung out free of the ship . next , a few feet of line were paid out , so that each boat would lie flush with the boat deck ... or , in some case , flush with promenad deck a direct below .
  then he realiz he needn't tri ani longer the boat was float off . he jump in ... cut the stern line ... yell for someon to free the bow ... and in the next instant was wash out by the same wave that swept off peter dali .
  they came sputter to the surfac , abelseth hopeless snarl in some rope from somewher . he had to free his hand to untangl the line , and his cousin and brother-in-law were wash away .
  miss eusti has a somewhat differ version : " one man was drunk and had a bottl of brandi in his pocket , which the quartermast prompt threw overboard , and the drunken man was thrown into the bottom of the boat ... " there was a differ kind of troubl in boat 6 . friction erupt from the moment major peuchen slid down the line to fill out the crew .
  the onli sound was a wail babi somewher in the boat . line were drop , and now the boat was fast .
  hugh woolner shout as 14 sail up . low toss over a line and gave them a tow .
  he could feel the cage move as it strain against the lash at each roll . what he could not see was how the constant work of the cage was wear the line thin where it was tie to the rail . a big sea , a heavi roll , and the line final part . with the next roll the cage slid a foot , then was stop by the slacken line . on the follow roll the cage slid back a foot and ben great weight behind it shot the cage forward and snap the remain line .
  the boat roll again , and the cage slid away from the winch . the men ran with line , shout , tri to get the line around the cage to snub it tight against the rail . befor they could tighten their line , the cage jerk free , shot across the deck , and struck the winch a mighti timber-shatt blow that cave in one side of the cage .
  all anim life was new and full of wonder for jim as much as for chet , and he long to see a fish , to touch it scali side , to examin it gill . but when ten minut had pass without a nibbl on chet line , jim start to give up hope .
  jim ran to his father , who was studi the ice near the edg of the water , and call , " ted got london on the radio , dad ! " they gather around all but chet , who went on dangl his line stolid as though the entir success of their journey depend on his luck as a fisherman .
  chet ignor the banter . he peer into the dark water as though tri to hocus fish onto his line with sheer will power .
  he peer into the dark water as though tri to hocus fish onto his line with sheer will power . sudden he stiffen and tug at the line .
  " mayb you'v caught a whale ! " the shine line came up out of the water .
  chet stare in dismay . a wriggl , flop creatur no more than five inch long dangl from the end of his line .
  may 31 . we start down anoth canyon , and reach rapid made danger by high rock lie in the channel ; so we run ashor , and let our boat down with line .
  we name the group triplet fall . we make a portag around the first ; past the second and third we let down with line .
  at such a place , we are let down the last boat , and , as she is set free , a wave turn her broadsid down the stream , with the stem , to which the line is attach , from shore , and a littl up . they haul on the line to bring the boat in , but the power of the current , strike obliqu against her , shoot her out into the middl of the river .
  they haul on the line to bring the boat in , but the power of the current , strike obliqu against her , shoot her out into the middl of the river . the men have their hand burn with the friction of the pass line ; the boat break away , and speed , with great veloc , down the stream .
  on examin , i find a horizont crevic in the rock , about ten feet abov the water , and a boat length below us , so we let her down to that point . one of the men clamber into the crevic , in which he can just crawl ; we toss him the line , which he make fast in the rock , and now our boat is tie up .
  june 22 . still make short portag and let down with line .
  we run two or three rapid after they have been care examin . then we have a seri of six or eight , over which we are compel to pass by let the boat down with line .
  this afternoon , we find three fall in close success . we carri our ration over the rock , and let our boat shoot over the fall , check and bring them to land with line in the eddi below .
  our run today is through a canyon , with rag , broken wall , mani later gulch or canyon enter on either side . the river is rough , and occasion it becom necessari to use line in pass rocki place .
  to us who are below , it seem imposs to keep the boat from go under the overhang cliff ; but powel , for the moment , heedless of bradley mishap , pull with all his power for half a dozen stroke , when the danger is past ; then he seiz bradley , and pull him in . the men in the boat abov , see this , land , and she is let down by line .
  held in this way , the men are abl to pull her into a cove , in the left wall , where she is made fast . but this leav a man on the rock abov , hold to the line of the littl boat .
  but this leav a man on the rock abov , hold to the line of the littl boat . when all is readi , he spring from the rock , cling to the line with one hand , and swim with the other , and we pull him in as he goe by .
  in one , the " emma dean " is caught in a whirlpool , and set spin about ; and it is with great difficulti we are abl to get out of it , with the loss of an oar . at noon , anoth is made ; and on we go , run some of the rapid , let down with line past other , and make two short portag .
  then we let down anoth boat to the end of it line beyond the first , and the third boat to the end of it line below the second , which bring it to the head of the fall , and under an overhang rock . then the upper boat , in obedi to a signal , let go ; we pull in the line , and catch the nearest boat as it come , and then the last .
  then we go , glide by hill and ledg , with distant wall in view ; sweep past sharp angl of rock ; stop at a few point to examin rapid , which we find can be run , until we have made anoth five mile , when we land for dinner . then we let down with line , over a long rapid , and start again .
  we land at it mouth , and stop for an hour or two to examin the fall . it seem possibl to let down with line , at least a part of the way , from point to point , along the right-hand wall .
  on the shore of this littl eddi there is about two feet of gravel beach abov the water . stand on this beach , some of the men take the line of the littl boat and let it drift down against anoth project angl . here is a littl shelf , on which a man from my boat climb , and a shorter line is pass to him , and he fasten the boat to the side of the cliff . then the second one is let down , bring the line of the third .
  in this way , curious littl alcov are form , in which are quiet bay of water , but on a much smaller scale than the great bay and buttress of marbl canyon . the river is still rapid , and we stop to let down with line sever time , but make greater progress as we run ten mile .
  it is with no littl misgiv that we see the river enter these black , hard wall . at it veri entranc we have to make a portag ; then we have to let down with line past some ugli rock .
  find i am caught here , suspend 400 feet abov the river , into which i should fall if my foot fail , i call for help . the men come , and pass me a line , but i cannot let go of the rock long enough to take hold of it .
  we can climb it , and walk along it summit to a point where we are just at the head of the fall . here the basalt is broken down again , so it seem to us , and i direct the men to take a line to the top of the cliff , and let the boat down along the wall . one man remain in the boat , to keep her clear of the rock , and prevent her line from be caught on the project angl .
  she is in swift water , and they are not abl to pull her back ; nor are they abl to go on with the line , as it is not long enough to reach the higher part of the cliff , which is just befor them ; so they take a bight around a crag . i send two men back for the other line .
  i stand on a project rock , wave my hat to gain his attent , for my voic is drown by the roar of the fall . just at this moment , i see him take his knife from it sheath , and step forward to cut the line .
  but he is in a whirlpool . we have the stem-post of his boat attach to the line .
  behind our hous in the laundri , mari and tessi spent their monday on two side of a big iron tabl , pass over the sheet an iron heat by a littl coal stove . outsid the laundri in a small mosquitoey backyard , bath suit hung etern on the line ; there was a big coal bin by the fenc .
  how to hunt anim . how to catch fish without a hook and line or net .
  a wide stream up which launch and small ship move back and forth ? where peopl on this hot saturday morn would be drift idl in littl boat , trail line in the water , fish the sandi bottom ?
  " but it was a littl longer than that , though at last they were there a farm and it farmyard , lightless . the stranger stop the hors and hand picklock the line .
  what do you want me to do ? " broke in eugen eager , interrupt vautrin . " almost noth at all , " rejoin he , allow a movement of joy to escap him , inexor as the express of the angler who feel a fish at the end of his line . "
  but if anyth happen to you , they could use you for seed . " the soldier now return with a long line and tie all three firm togeth , also lash them to the bodi of the saw-hors ; so there seem littl danger of their tumbl off . "
  he bait his fish hook , swung his pole , and watch where the bait hit the water and start to sink . almost at onc he felt a tug on his line .
  then pete heard ron voic . he pull in his line and put his pole between the rock where the wind couldn't reach it .
  at all other time they care avoid our hen , even to the point as has been often the case of walk right through a cluster of them , look as smug self-right as you could imagin . at other time , both dog fox and vixen have walk slowli under the clotheslin as cloth were be hung , and blown flap , and the wheel of the line connect with a tree was squeak loud .
  the coast guard was call about the dead dolphin . they came in a cutter and tie a line to it tail and began tow the bodi seaward .
  so , on this cool day in late march , i set to work . i engag a cooper clam digger for the use of his boat in help me secur a line to the tail .
  i well rememb a particular incid : i came upon the two older boy fish in the late even at the side of the pond . two grown men were rig like wireless station with everi imagin kind of fish line and fish lure , have fun for themselv .
  the children are in a tree hous high on the west hill . they have a peril hung rope ladder which they tell me adult cannot climb . ( and i believ them , for the rope are the old line from our ancient catboat . )
  kuktoy had live on the island all of his life and had weather more trial than i'd ever heard about . as a young man , kuktoy had three of his finger rip out of their socket by get them foul in a rawhid harpoon line and had doctor them himself .
  the stunt perform on the rope were the most interest to me , howev . the tight stretch line serv as a horizont bar ; it had just enough spring to allow the contest to combin their strength , nimbl , and sens of time into an astonish array of acrobat trick .
  fasten secur to the pin is a barbless hook similar to a fisherman gaff . throw the pin-lik float , with rawhid line attach , over and beyond the dead anim , the hunter drag it back across his prize , snag it with the sharp hook .
  then he was stop abrupt a third time . the hunter gave the line an angri jerk onli to be pull savag backward onto the seat of his sealskin pant .
  your father was never fond of fish , so he didn't stock the lake . when i was a youngster i was use to wast hour hope cast a line on to it , until my uncl gentl broke it to me that there were no trout in it .
  in march it is wise to clean cupboard , and cabinet . the closet need a good air and all the cloth need to be hung on the line in the backyard .
  the big shrimp boat on the end of the float nearest the mouth of the boat basin seem to bear the brunt of the flood . it rode taut on it line , press against the float .
  although the larg shrimp boat was without a crew , there were men on some of the smaller salmon boat . derrick could hear shout , groan , curs , as men push with pike pole , struggl with line , labor over balki engin in an effort to escap .
  jack clement slow the engin to make his dock approach . the chang of pace brought the other up , and emil came into the pilothous while the two crewmen went to bow and stern , readi to make the line fast to the dock .
  without the shelter of the small boat harbor , they were piti vulner to the gale that drove into the bay from the open sea . unless they had stout anchor line and plenti of scope , they would be in troubl .
  they use dog bone to make small hook , pig bone for the medium size , and human bone for larg fish hook . hawaiian fishermen jig with line fit with a stone sinker bound to a cowrie-shel lure to catch octopus .
  the instant an aku hit a hook , he was jerk into the cano and flip off . at onc , the line and hook were back in the water and the free hand of the fisherman stir the surfac again .
  second to the aku fisheri in the island modern commerci fish catch is the long-lin or flag-lin fisheri . flag-lin fishermen cruis offshor , put out line that are from five to eight mile long .
  flag-lin fishermen cruis offshor , put out line that are from five to eight mile long . these long line are set at interv with bait hook mark by float and buoy .
  anoth , the most famous of the charter fleet , is at kailua-kona , near the famous marlin ground off the kona coast . the skipper and crew pilot the boat , provid the gear , and bait the line .
  the first step , after catch one , is to quick turn the octopus insid out so that his sharp beaklik mouth has no chanc to bite . most diver in island water carri a long line on which to string their catch .
  most diver in island water carri a long line on which to string their catch . the end of this line is tie to an empti plastic bleach bottl , which serv as a buoy to keep the line float so the diver can tow his catch a safe distanc behind .
  ani hungri shark follow will come after the fish , not the diver . the length of the line protect a diver by give him time to see an approach shark and swim away .
  some famili rig old automobil batteri to an underwat light . the fish , attract by the light , bite the piec of raw shrimp bait on the hook dangl from the line of the fish pole .
  nevertheless , she had no way of ask him whi he wasn't wear them . line had been stretch between the limb of the four great pasania tree by the kitchen , and wash now took up everi inch of the linen cord that web the tree togeth . maggi , tie beneath the line , kept run back and forth under the white shape sportiv flap over her head and everi onc in a while let out a prolong howl . when the wash was hung , etsuko walk around between the line .
  the applic of pressur in matter of this kind requir a certain delicaci of touch and a measur of patienc . it is like an angler who has onli a light line to land a larg fish .
  it is like an angler who has onli a light line to land a larg fish . anyth like a sharp tug will snap the line , contact will be lost and the fish will get away .
  he cannot contain his excit . he grab a shark iron , a keen-edg harpoon with line and float attach , and second later hurl it deep into the back of a small femal that slide beneath him .
  the whale is no less astound than the boy . the line speed from the bucket like a live thing .
  three larg whale have return to the scene of action and are circl the victim she is a yearl half-sist of the littl calf . the line part , though whether from a bite or from the sheer impact of a pass bodi is not at the moment clear . tremain quick fasten a new line to the bight of the old one and the captain succeed in plant a second iron near the whale left flank .
  meanwhil , the fairi move in under full power and two sailor carri rifl up to the peak . they blaze away at the run whale for an hour and are about to quit from exhaust when they see the line go slack .
  the lifeless bodi roll in a pink wash . they haul her part out of the sea with the ship tackl and a line loop round her fluke .
  sheer chanc has led him east . he pass by the trail line of fishermen from neah bay and sekiu and pysht .
  he wave his arm mad and point to the left . men in yellow slicker run on the afterdeck , carri line and tackl .
  the ship back off with a clang of bell . a nylon line stretch taut to the whale , drip along it length and trembl like a fiddl string .
  will he be first ? will the line foul his propel or break his rudder ?
  " by god , we'v done it ! " the tug move slowli astern to keep the nylon line taut .
  the boom lean peril over the side ; the deck slant ; a bucket bang against the rail . now a man jerk a slender trip-wir follow the line from deck to whale .
  there is much scratch of head : who know how to shoot a whale ? how big a line we need to hold him ?
  it was heard by ship broker in tokyo , and the stock of matsushita broke half a point . kasuo fujima open a roll of cloth in his kit and remov a length of cod line with tripl hook .
  they move there for an hour and wash clean and white . fujima-san pull in the line .
  but he was understood in spite of the impolit wave and two crewmen care hook a resplend chromium ladder to the gunwal . need no urg , denni let go his hold of the parachut line at the same instant that he stretch out his arm to grab the tubular sidepiec .
  hand over hand they pull in the silk . then as the chute billow over the small deck , denni lean overboard to gather in the last few feet of the line .
  far away upstream a new sound had begun a rumble-grumbl like a big jet in the sky . we were lucki that brain was a scout life guard and knew how to heav a line .
  if he hadn't it wouldn't have reach us , becaus it was a heavi coil with a long way to go . i snub the line around the wagon seat , and made it good and tight with sever half hitch .
  neill felt his anger rise . the man was play them , play them like fish on a line .
  it'd been a nasti , cold , raini day , and the rain was chang to sleet . the cap'n was staggerin ' around the slipperi deck , but i didn't see the lad who usual toss the line .
  that was enough distanc in this thick air to walk out of sight of each other , as we soon discov . these line , not chain but light , tough rope , too strong to be broken , were all one need to be sure he would not float off in space when he step or jump .
  for minut it was like a slapstick comedi . we'd jump ; we'd swing out to the end of our line as if we were fli .
  he was play his own game of hide-and-seek , enjoy the protect color of his space suit . dillo touch one of the button at the platform , and the spool for the fourth hitch reel in the line slowli .
  my thought don't fire at rocket speed . i stood there ; i count the line twice befor the first pang of panic went through me .
  foolish . doc must have taken percussi line .
  " doc ... call doc ... are you there on the fourth ? ... call doc ... " no answer . i touch the wind-up button , the spool turn , and the fourth line came reel in .
  " what happen to the chimp ? he not on his line . "
  dillo was shout . " who let the chimp off the line ? "
  " he follow the fourth one out of sight . the last i saw he was run the line through his hand .
  " i mean it could have happen ! just as he unfasten himself , he might have seen doc come along , with a hand on the line .
  it was like an open stone quarri , cushion with spong . we stop at the outer limit of our line .
  doc leap . doc , with not a ghost of a safeti line attach to him , dart past us like a human rocket .
  dillo shout . gari had alreadi jump in straight pursuit and jump , he swung his arm and threw a wave into the slack of his line .
  modern echo sounder are so sensit they can detect shipwreck and school of fish . the equip replac the older techniqu of throw a weight line into the sea .
  one miscalcul or fals move could have knock the h-bomb off the ledg into deeper water , possibl spill it dead content out and poison the mediterranean sea over a vast area for mani year . by mean of a special navy-develop underwat recoveri apparatus , lift line were success attach to the h-bomb , bring it undamag to the surfac .
  rang too far from an underwat habitat can be danger becaus the diver may not be abl to find his way back . to prevent ani such incid dure the sealab experi the aquanaut were attach to their dwell by guid line whenev they swam for ani distanc .
  in a make-believ rescu effort , the porpois would dive down to the habitat when a buzzer rang . an aquanaut would attach a line to one of the ring on tuffi har , then turn off the buzzer at the habitat .
  a second aquanaut , pretend to be lost , would then signal the porpois by turn on his own buzzer . after tuffi reach the " victim , " the aquanaut would remov the line from tuffi har and use it as his guid back to the habitat .
  then while i sat at the tabl and drank orang juic and pour milk over cornflak , she would talk to me about all the thing she'd alreadi done that day . " whi , i'v got a load of wash on the line and some iron done .
  and i wonder if it made it harder for rubi to grow up with a long neck and boni arm and freckl , after she'd dream about be rich and glamor . i went around to the back of the hous , and aunt lou was come in from the yard with her cloth basket full of cloth taken down from the line .
  the secesh rode off . job shook the line .
  he said he didn't know ; they had come there in a wagon . i pull in my line and went up the bank .
  when albert cluveau said that about ned my heart start beat so fast i thought i might fall . i held on tight to the fish pole till i was steadi , then i pull in my line and went back home .
  " get down now , " cluveau said . ned hand bam the line .
  " tall mulatto in the white cowboy hat said : " ' nough of this . langloi , fetch two plow line off that wagon . " sappho said he was run befor the tall mulatto mention the plow line , he just start run faster when he heard it .
  to cover his confus at have let the sound escap him , he becam veri busi with the bait and float and sinker . he even bait up helen line for her , and in a few moment their float were bob on the wave .
  " got one ! got one ! " he cri , reel in his line .
  in an hour sever dozen fish lay in the net on the bottom of the boat . " that it , i think , " the professor said , reel in his line .
  look down , jeremi saw the water turn pink below his neck . as the throb pain in his templ increas , he knew it was too far to shore and too far to reach for a handhold on one of the boat anchor line .
  " it all right , " he said . on parker street the build seem to be dwell , to judg from the line of wash near them .
  come here and give me a hand . " while the two detect were chat , the skipper on his own initi had bait a line and appar hook a massiv fish .
  the negro had the line and it was hard to tell who was pull what , when lepet saw boner march to the rear of the boat , yank out a pistol , and with perfect aim drill two shot through the fish head . " what the fuck'd you do that to the fish for ? " said the skipper , hold a sudden slack line .
  as she move grace about on the glaze and frozen lawn , i realiz that she was wear ice skate ! i watch as she swoop down upon her cloth basket , extract a piec of cloth , took sever happi turn about the yard , then glide back to her line to hang a garment .
  but he had other gift . he could set snare , lobster pot or a long line better than anyon in the local .
  " yes , ma'am . i intend to , " he said , almost insol , back toward the bed and uncoil the line . "
  she wait while her host remov a dismantl speaker assembl on his singl upholst chair and flick the cushion in a grand manner with his pocket handkerchief . she took the hand he offer to aid her cakewalk to the chair over the coil line .
  we could hear voic and shout order . at length , a signal was given and men start pull on the line which ran through the block at the peak of the tripod .
  he switch over from manual to remot oper , put betti now under control of hal . it was a standard safeti precaut ; though he was still secur to betti by an immens strong spring-load cord littl thicker than cotton , even the best safeti line had been known to fail .
  he would look a fool if he need his vehicl and was unabl to call it to his assist by pass instruct to hal . the door of the pod swung open , and he drift slowli out into the silenc of space , his safeti line unreel behind him .
  betti continu to acceler on her runaway cours . then , tow behind her at the end of the safeti line , appear a spacesuit .
  the euphoria that flow over him mask out all realiti and the scent was all there was . when the shelf had torn loos from the wall , a quarter-inch nylon line had slip off a three-inch common nail on the top of the plank , over which it had been loop . lash like a thin white snake , the line had whip out through a hole in the roof and across the downward slope , dislodg sever shingl and two irat herring gull on the way .
  later that night he scrape togeth as much debri as he could find in the cabin and tri to buri the untouch coon . doc painter had fasten a line to the water can and withdrew it the next morn , refil it and slip it back in again under the door .
  each day he crouch back in a corner as he heard the old man struggl up the slight slope from the beach . he crouch and he wait as the door inch up and the water bucket was withdrawn on the end of it line .
  on certain day the wave weren't big enough to make much differ , but at other time they were mountain , and he would arriv home soak to the skin and ach in everi muscl . but he love it , and he never got over the thrill of feel the sudden tug when a fish hit his line .
  the eldest boy had got over his seasick , and he and the middl one sat in numb silenc in the stern . when they reach the dock , bubba made the line fast and then help the woman out of the boat .
  if it all that import , i'll come . " they went to the shed where liscom kept his line and pulley , and then , space about twenti yard apart so as not to attract attent , they made their way to jule lenihan hous .
  now , if someon was to cut the arm of that hoist almost through , then the first time doc got a good heavi dredge-load outa the water the arm'd most like break , and the whole thing'd go straight to the bottom . might even take doc with it , if he got foul up in the line .
  " all right , you red lobster , avast there , " he bellow . " throw your captain a line and help haul me aboard .
  the yard famili fortun enough to have yard space are no doubt alreadi use it for soft ball , pitch practic , touch footbal , and the like . badminton is a great famili game , and a cloth line may be use for a net in a pinch .
  each child crayon a design on his or her , after he has print his name in big letter . the cardboard are stapl to a long , strong line , which then can be loop around the room , or between post or tree , or along a fenc .
  in cap and gown i slip almost unnot into the senior process , as it round the corner of the hedg , on it way to the church . i didn't hear much of what presid hutchin said , for my mind was divid between our last tablecloth , now dri i hope on the line , and keep susan volumin gown from disclos my bare leg .
  he watch mr. murray back the truck out of his garag and start for town , pass a gray car come in the other direct . mrs. murray had hung out her wash of mani color on the line a shirt , anoth shirt , overal , underp , pajama an indecipher signal in flag .
  they never went where they could not ride . think of the day of wait on the riverbank , i wish i had provid him with hook and a line .
  for tedious second noth happen . then there was a seri of sharp bang as some of the tow line part .
  again there was a shudder , then a nois like a small cannon be fire . a tow line thrash back across the deck , tear off a bollard and hurl it through the corner of the bridg .
  a bucket at his side was overflow with pollack . he haul the line in , bait it care with a piec of bacon , and lob it back into the sea with a splash .
  so the men made their own . men forg hook and filch nylon line from aerial kite and weather balloon .
  at the moment , he had a larg conger eel fight in a sack at his feet . he was hold the strong line delic in his big hand .
  " pull , " shout bori . igor grab the line and put a turn round his wrist .
  " help me play it , you fool . it'll break the line .
  " the two men haul on the fish . it drag yard of line into the water , but they gradual drew it back .
  the fishermen ran back with him to bori . mani hand grab the line from the pant cook .
  mani hand grab the line from the pant cook . his palm were slash and bleed where the line had burn deep furrow in them .
  the cossack was fish . as albert watch , he began pull in a long line he was trail behind the cutter .
  igor unhook the fish and drop it into the top of the nearest box . then he threw the line back into the sea .
  " this time i'm do it myself , " said ace . he climb over into the cutter and unti the line .
  the red bra they'd all seen , and sever other that the men hope to see again fill . at first the men tri to avoid be caught look at the line .
  victoria nail score his back . igor retreat from the cave , pay out the line as he went .
  he stood a few yard away , to one side of the entranc . then he jerk the line , sudden , and clasp his hand over his ear .
  even so , the sheer clutter in that basement took a bit of sort out , especi in that dim light . one wall had a floor-to-ceil spread of wall-bar on gymnasium line .
  the gunboat took it prize in tow , as the flagship signal retir for the small boat . the brig and schooner advanc to get line aboard their charg while the frigat , support with heavi fire , move in toward the rock through water that foam with a hail of enemi projectil .
  " i'll have the boat over to tow , if you pleas , " the captain order . boat drop into the water , snake out line , and men bent to the oar .
  " hull consid the suggest a moment . " all right , mr. morri , have everyth over five inch made up into a line , and send the launch and cutter ahead with a kedg anchor .
  " the kedg went down near a mile from the ship . men fell to on the capstan , wind in the line .
  the saratoga came next , follow by the ticonderoga and the prebl . mobil had been provid for by attach spring line to the anchor cabl , one on each side the ship could be move in posit by haul in on one line , while pay out on the other .
  the moment had come when the kedg must do their work , must wind the ship around , so that the port tier of gun could be brought to bear upon the enemi . he shout command that sent an anchor plung from the stern , while men cut the forward cabl and other bent to the capstan , winch in the line to the starboard kedg .
  pass it forward , get it under the bow and astern . " men struggl to posit the heavi line ; onc more the capstan clank it turn .
  the saratoga move again , complet her swing , inch by inch , with port gun fire as they bore . when it was observ aboard the confianc that the american ship was swing , a lieuten had spring line bent to his anchor cabl in order to wind ship in similar fashion .
  at the veri moment when the man was appar doom to strike the hard edg of the apron and be drag along it abras surfac , the parachut tilt again , trade a share of downward motion for later slip , and drift seren over the grass . he struck and clutch at the line while teeter , stumbl and roll as the billow canopi began to drag him heedless along the ground .
  sig was first on the scene . when he snatch at the shroud line , set his heel and pull , danni did the same .
  he remov the tape and the glass , set them care on the roof next to the mold . at the same time , salli open a small metal box she had been carri and took out a long line with sever fishhook tie to one end .
  from a plastic bag in the box she chose a few slice of fish which had been taken from their remain stock . she bait the hook and turn the line over to freddi . spread full-length on the edg of the skylight , freddi lower the line into a likely-look tank direct underneath the open pane .
  freddi reach into the box and brought out a small fish rod in three section . he fit two of them togeth , strung the line along it length , and then , drop the whole apparatus through the open pane , extend it over the next tank and lower the hook .
  georg could see , dim against the water , the shadow of sever fish warili circl their unexpect midnight snack . in a short while there was a tug on the line .
  the museum rais the best catfish for eat in the world . " freddi quick brought up six or seven catfish , and then salli took over the line .
  " the tank lynn was refer to was in the deepest of the shadow , but they could all make out sever shape move to and fro in the turgid water . " one more it is , " agre salli , and she turn the line over to lynn .
  lynn took her place on the ledg and drop her hand through the open . with the rod extend over the tank , she lower the line into the middl of the circl shape .
  she fought like a profession , hold the rod insid the skylight , while georg ad his weight to her pull . freddi reach through the open and grasp the line .
  the one lynn had hook measur about two feet in length ; georg saw that they could never get it up even if they had want to . " hold the rod , " freddi repeat grim ; he began saw on the line with his penknif ; the shark was twist at the end , swing back and forth like a pendulum .
  " hold the rod , " freddi repeat grim ; he began saw on the line with his penknif ; the shark was twist at the end , swing back and forth like a pendulum . as freddi slash through the line , lynn and georg toppl over backward , and the shark , as amaz as ani of them , drop with a tower splash into the piranha tank .
  salli , freddi , lynn , and georg scrambl back across the branch , down to the earth , and out of the museum ground as fast as they could . " i hope the line disappear in the fight , " freddi said as he replac the ladder in the littl equip shed from which he had borrow it .
  there one thing she said i can rememb word for word : " chichella , don't worri about peopl know how rich or how poor you are . they can alway tell from the copper hang in your kitchen or the sheet on your line .
  " there is smoke come from the millhous , " the old man said . " there are also cloth hang on a line . "
  howev , let it be understood that no one should dive without some type of person float , such as an inflat vest , in addit to a surfac float . a good automobil inner tube with attach line make a veri effect and practic surfac float for rest .
  as he came alongsid , a hatchway open in the side of the ship abov him . a line was play down to the rowboat .
  trigano grasp it and tie it secur around his bundl . then he tug twice on the line .
  who ever would have guess , when they made fast to the shore , that in ten minut the dive suit would be call for in such a frantic hurri ? the air pump whisper steadili in his ear as he trail pipe and line behind him .
  " well , no , sam , " alic said kind , " it is realli time for us to go anyway . perhap next time we come , you will put a fenc round the wash line .
  it reach far out into the bay of kiel . at that long jetti , mani a british warship had fasten her line for a friend visit dure the intern famous " kieler week " of the kaiser era .
  our rusti boat berth near the stern of the tender lech . the line were not yet fulli secur when kern , the exec , cross to the liner to arrang for the crew lodg and for eckstein last journey to his hometown .
  earli on the third day after our encount with the british cruiser , we found the lone belchen at the design place . approach slowli , we identifi ourselv , exchang courtesi through the megaphon , and caught the line to which the oil hose was fasten .
  at 1300 we were met by a minesweep , sent to a predesign point to guid us through the mine-infest water to lorient . some of our seamen prepar white pennant and hoist them on a line fasten to the protrud periscop head .
  how satisfi it was to be expect , how good it was to have surviv ! a militari band launch into a resound march as u-557 came alongsid the quay and fasten her line .
  the month of august in ' 41 was but a few day old when u-557 sail for her second patrol . at 1400 we remov the line from the pillar .
  both full stop . fasten all line .
  thus taken between the two vessel , u-415 began her slow march into port . 0445 : maneuv with difficulti on our one lame diesel , i aim my ship toward the illumin squar in the bunker , where i saw a few black figur wait on the pier . the bow bounc off the concret head wall , but the line , alreadi fasten at the pillar on land , held the boat steadi .
  the crew stroll aboard in small group , as inconspicu as possibl , so as not to suggest to the french dockhand of the night shift that we might be sail . at midnight we remov the line from the pillar .
  time : 2120 , august 22 , 1944 . onli a few seamen were on deck to handl the line .
  " never mind , you get out of here befor it too late . " a few command , and the line were remov from the pillar , the gangway push back to the pier .
  we look more like undernourish and fatigu jungl fighter . our line were thrown ashor .
  here the overhaul of my boat could be guarante , wherea a stay in kiel would onli jeopard her exist . one hour after we had fasten our line we remov them again .
  we had noth to show for our long and agon voyag noth at all except our live . gray cloud hung low in the sky when u-953 , onc again old and rust bitten , fasten her line at the quay .
  " angermann was recit still more horror when anoth small new boat plow up to the pier . a man threw a line .
  sinc veri few incom midshipmen know anyth about seamanship and navig , cours in that depart begin with the simplest thing . men who will one day command atomic-pow vessel first learn to knot and splice line and to row a boat .
  as befor , we drift down upon it . tackl were made fast and line flung to the men , who scrambl aboard like monkey .
  then he was carri aft and flung into the sea . forti fifti sixti feet of line ran out , when wolf larsen cri " belay ! "
  but at the moment of contact thoma mugridg cri out . then he came in like a fresh-caught fish on a line , clear the rail generous and strike the deck in a heap , on hand and knee , and roll over .
  " take a turn , " he said quiet to the man . the boat puller obey , take a turn around the littl forward thwart and pay the line as it jerk taut .
  furl the sail and lash it secur about the mast , boom , sprit , and two pair of spare oar , i threw it overboard . a line connect it with the bow , and as it float low in the water , practic unexpos to the wind , it drift less rapid than the boat .
  but i complain no more and set about make a tent of the sail for maud . i had look upon it as a simpl task , what of the oar , mast , boom , and sprit , to say noth of plenti of line .
  to prevent the butt of the mast from slip on the deck , i nail down thick cleat . everyth in readi , i made a line fast to the apex of the shear and carri it direct to the windlass .
  the mast , boom , and gaff i had clear were gone . he had found the line which held them and cast them adrift .
  my wrist and arm ach intoler , and though i had eaten heartili of a twelv o'clock lunch , i had work so hard that i was faint from hunger . i pull in the oar and bent forward to the line which held the tow .
  i found a light kedg anchor in the fore hold , where such thing were kept , and with a deal of exert got it on deck and into the boat . with a long run line coil down in the stern , i row well out into our littl cove and drop the anchor into the water .
  there was no wind , the tide was high , and the schooner float . cast off the shore line , i kedg her out by main strength , the windlass be broken , till she rode near up and down to the small anchor too small to hold her in ani breez .
  so it up to you to go an ' get it . " he cut a short pole at the water edg and drew from one of his pocket a bit of line and a draggl fli that had onc been a royal coachman . "
  of cours , you can't keep an anim like that in a tini pen all the time . he need exercis , so we rig up a line between two tree about 40 feet apart in the side yard .
  i'd seen it work onc on a larg hunt dog . with assort children in attend , i led the donkey to the line . then chris , who was ten , snap the catch onto the exercis line .
  we went in and watch him through the window . he walk the length of the line twice .
  that was his contempl look . then , deliber and with amaz delicaci , he close his front teeth over the spring of the latch on the exercis line .
  he was investig a routin complaint , he said , but we were in the clear as far as he was concern ; jack was a fine healthi donkey . he ask about exercis , and we show him the exercis line .
  he quaver , " friend , isn't he ? " after that , everi morn , if he was out on the exercis line , jack would bugl a salut to mr. macintosh as he pass .
  " cleat up , " the captain order . a deckman fasten the tow line to a cleat in the middl of the boat .
  at the height of the american jump craze the chief of the soviet air forc , general jacob alksni , sent an offic name sergei mienov to the unit state as an observ . at roosevelt field , long island , the russian visitor saw a fifteen-year-old girl jump from a height of 2,000 feet and get snarl in her line .
  if you see blue sky through more than one panel , pull your reserv ... . start prepar your land immedi . watch for smoke or flag to see how the wind is blow on the ground ... . put your arm up on the shroud line and grab a hand .
  britain paratroop had chute that open more gentl than the american type . a small pilot chute came out first , then the support line , and final the big canopi .
  screen by the burza against possibl attack , the crew of the campbel swift began to follow command hirshfield order . four men strip off their cloth , tie line about their waist and slip into the freez water . each held in his mouth a cork tie to a light line . these light line were attach to heavier one that were connect with a collis mat .
  the men were to swim down to the hole in the hull and push the cork through it so they would bob to the surfac insid the ship . there , other men would grasp the line attach to the cork .
  soon a detach of sailor gather at the base of the lighthous to work out a way to get thompson down . homemad kite with line attach were flown up in the air .
  on the deck of the winslow , ensign worth bagley stood readi to catch it . befor the line could be cast , a shell struck the winslow , instant kill bagley and three torpedo men . despit the enemi fire , which now seem to be entir concentr on the two struggl ship , the line was thrown .
  the other were to follow onc the lifeboat was in the water . but one of the wellington men , afraid that the heavi sea would smash the small boat against the side of the ship , cut the line .
  after more than three hour in the water , brown was pick up . as he reach for the line thrown from the warrington he was feebli shout , " i had eighteen men .
  burk calcul were slight off . he had to start the engin again to get his plane close enough to throw a line to the raft .
  with a wild scream he dive into the shark-fil water . but his partner had enough strength to drag him back and then to grab burk line .
  we spend the whole day on the water . pascal fish with a line that has a number of hook on it .
  the battl of the coral sea had been fought ten long , long day ago . kortland could look down upon the near lifeless thing swing up on the line .
  and here they were , near the breakwat , and the civilian pilot was come on board to lay them alongsid the finger pier , bright in the blaze light which reveal all the feverish activ of the yard . the line were hard secur befor a dozen men were readi to come on board naval offic and civilian in approxim equal number .
  " let have it ! " said the warrant bosun to the shadowi men at his side ; and he did not say " it " ; he substitut a dirti noun for the pronoun , as unnecessarili as ever . he took the heav line in his hand , deft seiz half a dozen coil in his right hand while his left loos held the remaind , and whirl the weight with the full strength of his arm . the weight soar off into the dark , and the line ran smooth out from his left hand . had it been daylight , the warrant bosun would have fire a line out of a gun , but in dark that would mean a reveal flash .
  human muscl and skill had to take the place of a gun , and if the line were bad thrown , if it fell short and had to be recoil and re-thrown , five minut would be wast , and , with mani ship to fuel , a similar mistak at each would make a total of mani minut lost , and in so mani minut ... the warrant bosun did not know that nelson had onc said that at sea five minut can make the differ between victori and defeat , but he felt that truth in his bone after twenti year in the navi . the weight shot off into the dark , trail the line behind it , and the warrant bosun utter a grunt of moros satisfact at feel the line catch and hold .
  someon on the battleship forecastl had seiz it . megaphon shout order over the wind , and the heav line ran steadili out to the battleship .
  there was a two-inch messeng line attach to the heav line the warrant bosun was respons for the vital knot which join them and , by the time the two-inch line was be haul into the battleship , the warrant bosun was readi to follow it with a 3-1/2-inch line , and that was follow by a five-inch line , and that was strong enough to have entrust to it the immens manila towlin on which the rest of the oper depend . from other part of the ship , other heav line had been thrown , other messeng pass , now that the two ship were ride togeth more or less comfort har togeth with the heavi manila .
  it was up to him to eas the strain or take it up , keep the ship at a constant distanc apart without allow the towlin to break under the continu jerk to which the wave subject it . if that line should part , everyth els , includ the precious hose which the boom were begin to swing out over the gap , would be torn asund .
  he was wet and hungri and weari but the fleet oiler was move up alongsid the carrier , and the warrant bosun had to leav off swear . those messeng line had to be pass , and he could save five minut if he made quit sure that they went over at the first attempt .
  it might even be express more forcibl still : the admir at the battleship bridg , the admir with the broad gold on his sleev , irasc signal " expedit , " was at that particular moment a less import person than the warrant bosun , wet through , worn out , and yet still swing out the boom and hose with all the accur judgement of twenti year of experi . the work had begun befor daylight ; and night was about to fall when the last line was cast off and fake down .
  when she was not help her mother make bread , or slide pot of bubbl brown bean in or out of the big oven at the side , or bast great joint of meat , she was on her knee scrub the wooden floor , their plank worn smooth by the steadi tattoo of mani feet and by sand and scour . or she was wash the big tub of cloth that accumul so quick , hang them out to dri on a line that reach all the way across the clear behind the hous .
  as they walk through the warm , clear air , the colonel breath it in deepli , exhal with a sigh . " one a day like this , a bodi should be allow to do his work and later perhap take a pole and line and think of naught but fat trout , " he said regret .
  the king had no success and was just about to abandon his effort when nell with a spright laugh urg him : " but see , sire , you have got a bite at last . " sure enough , when the king pull in his rod , he found half a dozen fri smelt at the end of the line , tie to his hook with a silken thread .
  a trout was rise just upstream . i paid out some line wish it would alway stay thus soft and dri and , measur the distanc with a fals cast or two , laid down a spent gnat exact a foot abov his last swirl .
  one bush , with it brown stem lave in the middl current , shook with a perpetu silent laughter , as if to mock at ani fli that god or men might cast one inch beyond it outermost leaf . for the durat of a cigarett i sit on a rock midstream and watch my trout rise under his guardian bush , while my rod and line hang dri on the alder of the sunni bank .
  readi now ! coil up the dri line and stand midstream , rod in instant readi .
  it come a littl premonitori shiver in that aspen on the hill let me get out half a cast , and swish it gentl back and forth , readi for the main puff to hit the pool . no more than half a line , mind you !
  in a few minut he , too , is kick in the creel . i sit in happi medit on my rock , ponder , while my line dri again , upon the way of trout and men .
  with cat-lik care not to roil his majesti bath , i step in , and stand stock-stil for five minut to let thing calm down . the while , i strip out , oil , dri , and coil upon my left hand thirti feet of line .
  i blow upon my fli to give it one last fluff , lay it on the stream at my feet , and quick pay out coil after coil . then , just as the line straighten out and the fli is suck into the jungl , i walk quick downstream , strain my eye into the dark vault to follow it fortun .
  courag becaus although the catch was better the weather was a greater risk the farther you sail from overfish home water . foolhardi becaus one day if you persist you would lose all your gear pot , net , and line in the sudden storm that brought in the terribl ground sea from the illimit westward ocean .
  korean and indian fight kite are so sensit to the touch of the handler that they will alight within an inch or two of where he direct them to go . the celebr indian kite-fly surendra bahadur could fli a kite six inch off the ground ; also , he could tell a kite height by listen to the wind on the line .
  kite battl are fought daili from roof and field in asia . the combat glaze their kite line with a mixtur of past and ground glass , then take their posit with high maneuver kite .
  the combat glaze their kite line with a mixtur of past and ground glass , then take their posit with high maneuver kite . line cross , overlap .
  did it fli ? superbl with 200 rapt kite-fli handl the line .
  keep the wind at your back . tri for a smooth , easi launch , a steadi climb , a steep angl of line without undu sag , an even flight , and a firm return to your hand .
  i add my own non-expert suggest : keep your eye on the kite . the line may break ( mine has ) .
  he went over to stand by rick . we toss the line over the side , set the fish boat adrift .
  i got the lift capac figur for helium and hydrogen . it turn out that if our friend use a specif type of chute , which is common with skydiv , you could inflat a balloon within the shroud line and the canopi .
  he made him the garden of the kingdom , to drive away the sparrow from the king head . 48 . old hiram goat was feel fine , ate three red shirt right off the line .
  and just west of stratford i left potiphar in charg of himself , becaus i knew a stop would wake up parson , and i got my cloth and gear out of the van , and wrote on my slate , " gone home , " and look at parson asleep and felt sad . i went around and stop potiphar and weight his line with a rock , and gave his fine big round rump a pat .
  the new lobster boat charg into hawkey inlet and bump into his wharf . trapper and lucinda jump out , threw a line to billi pierc , and ran up the lawn .
  mayb next year they could rope the hay off the rack . jess stood up and took the line from georg .
  " hah ! " jess shout , lean back , his arm flex against the rhythmic pull of the line as the hors march close besid the huge log of the barn .
  the team stop abrupt . he made a half-hitch with the line at the top of the hayrack middl upright , and turn to take his fork .
  " whoa ! " georg cri , and pull on the line so hard that he sat down almost on top of his father head .
  we found the hous realli has a board floor under all that dirt . we wash all the bed , and it hang on the line right now .
  " but the onli hope for the women and children was the launch . " a boat carri a line was hurl into the cove at the cost of one broken arm .
  all of the use cloth that arriv in kabul from the state look like new , if a littl out of style . it is ship after be dry-clean and press and then , when it get to the bazaar , is hung on hanger on cloth line stretch over the street from store front to store front .
  there is noth like the use cloth bazaar in kabul on a windi novemb day . etch against the bleak , drab sky are sweater , suit , and long underwear that danc merrili in the breez on myriad line high abov your head .
  the figur of a man loom sudden abov him and ason rais his sword until he saw the other was unarm , his face and head cake with dri blood . ason slash at the line .
  let me take one place and row with you . " the line fell free and the galley began to move out .
  a thin and broad-should young man name pylor , from the island of kea , said that he had much dive experi after the spong that grew offshor there , and he volunt to look under the galley . a line was tie under his arm and he dive and came up quit soon after .
  there was more shout and laughter and then the galley shudder as the ship bump against them . feet thud on the cabin roof , while anoth sidonioi jump down to the foredeck with a line , bend to tie it secur .
  everi bit of leather avail had been gather and braid into rope to tie about the stone . these were the anchor line for two long , thick leather cabl that stretch out ahead , well rub with fat to keep them soft and suppl .
  the rope that had been use to lift the leg were now lash secur to the log behind the stone , and the lift was readi to begin . one hundr and fifti men pick up each line . they would pull the top of the shear-leg away from the stone , and the line tie to the short crossbar would pull the stone to a vertic posit . if everyth went correct inteb order the slack be taken up on the line , then walk about examin everi detail befor turn to ason .
  saturday morn she ran the sweeper and in the afternoon she bought groceri . monday after work she wash the navi blue and white orlon dress she wore sunday to the movi and hung it on the rope line abov the bathtub .
  various color twine , cord and rope , avail sinc the popular of macram , are also usabl . you may , howev , choos freeli from butcher twine , mason line , nylon and plastic twine .
  onc or twice i thought the first drop had begun to fall . i rush downstair to bring the wash in from the line .
  the mule made no sound but plung wild in the har . ostler lean all his weight back on the line . the wound mule plung again and again as the other mule respond to the line .
  ain't nobodi miss no dinner yet on account of me that i know of . " he drove on north grumbl , but flail the line against the rump of the team .
  the singletre on the off side drag and bounc against the front wheel . the line in the professor hand droop down onto the tongu and neck yoke .
  the professor imagin that he was far abov them , so that he could see men and their unknown end as men can see longhorn and the end they cannot see . he saw the remuda and the cowboy ; then he saw a wagon jolt along and himself hold droop line , sit look at the back end of four mule .
  larri ignor the cri and came swoop in . the fisherman nylon line , taut and glisten with drop of seawat , sudden went slack as larri board rode over it .
  " most of us work dure the week and saturday , and sunday are the onli chanc we got to go surf , " larri said . " ah , what the hell , rocki , " anoth fisherman said , reel in his line .
 "this money has never been carri out of the compani in cash, but it must have been transform at one point into cash," he said."so from frankfurt there is possibl a line of bank account that will shed more light on this." 
 "i will be out of work shortly; that whi i want to leave," say ruben arabean, a 30-year-old engineer, marri with two children.a he wait in line for his immigr visa at the australian embassy, he explains: "i want to live in a countri where thing are plan out, where the budget is approv at the begin of the year, not at the end." 
 my eye were wide open in search of the unknown.a i move my platoon of 20-odd teen-ag through the jungle, i chose to walk third in the line of march. 
 in quito, where build rock and crack but didn't collapse, automobil use is restrict and soldier guard the gas stations.at quito air forc base, earthquak victim wait in line for hour to hitch ride on cargo plane to the earthquak zone. 
 the columnist goe on: "if a person is kind, or generous, it an event."h mail, she says, touch on sore spot rang from poor manner in supermarket line to talk dure movies. 
 so did peopl magazine, ap and a dozen photographers.outside, a line of custom wait to get in. 
 the head of an intern bank in singapor confirm that he send his driver onto the street everi weekday at 5 a.m. with instruct not to return without a copy.bi get out so early, the driver can be first in line when the newsstand open. 
 edward, just six month old, most sleep and eat banana mush.hi mother most sit in line and watch kung fu and wildlif film on the four closed-circuit televis screen in the dingi recept area.about 300 other black peopl who have come to regist for one thing or anoth are also wait and watching, and more are stand in an even longer line outside. 
 for their part, some indigen valley resid complain that their nativ soil has alreadi becom a verit coloni of the midwest.a latino businessman saw someth symbol about recent spend 20 minut in a cafeteria line behind a group of winter texans, onli to find that the mexican entre was sold out by the time he was served. 
 mr. hodel, a former energi secretary, has been the most outspoken cabinet member on the threat to the u.s. from depend on oil imports.h has been warn that unless the u.s. chang it ways, it will face gasolin line within two to five years. 
 am i right or am i wrong?"h is everi bit as high on his scheme to unifi this bifurc citi with a line of gondola suspend 320 feet abov the mississippi river. 
 for most of nine hour we prowl the shorelin and place in the lake where weed or fallen tree punctur the water surface.w cruis a line of rundown boat sheds, and cook slip a neat cast into each. 
 the japanese, sociologist note, tend to follow the crowd.they measur the qualiti of ice cream, for example, by the length of the line in front of the shop. 
 c-ld-r l-v-s v-nna read a sign in caldor book department.th 1,000 or so peopl fight for a place in line have no troubl fill in the blanks. 
 "nope," say ms. white firmly.sh has onli 90 minut to sign book for the privileg 250 who queu up befor caldor close off the line. 
 ms. white kiss a littl girl who bring her a rose."g me a kiss," yell some high school boy in the middl of the long and wind line. 
 "i get her first," say his friend and classmat kevin marski.meanwhile, a woman offer dan kelli a $1 bribe to cut into the bulg line and get ms. white to autograph a book. 
 mr. kent believ the incident, which last two or three minutes, may have been connect to some sort of high-energi weapon experiment.two year ago, mr. nonella buckaroo found four dead cattl lie in a straight line one mile long, their chest and belli pock by some sort of lesions. 
 some food shortag were reported.tour slump and line for visa and passport form as peopl sought to leav the south pacif nation. 
 so there a new emphasi on tri to make such transact just a bit more pleasant.in new york and some other cities, for example, the servic is experi with comput that can tell custom how long they'll wait in line befor be helped. 
 but a consumer-pric index wouldn't captur the full measur of inflation.expert note that rampant repress inflat show up in long line at stores, poor qualiti of goods, new product that contain no improv over cheaper earlier model and shrink select on store shelves. 
 back in december, harrison j. goldin was at the front of a long line of institut investor itch to take a verbal swipe at general motor corp. and it chairman, roger smith. 
 then amid profound silenc he assur his audience, sedat and terrified, that while their person safeti was most dear to him he felt bound to confid that the plane comput system was down, he had no idea how much fuel was left in the plane, and he was plan an unschedul land in atlanta forthwith.such episod are now the convers loos chang of airport bar and taxi lines. 
 he the leader-elect of west germani biggest party, the social democrats, and he stand befor a downtown hall full of worker in a citi that long been a spd stronghold.down the street, monument to the german welfar state -- the health office, the employ offic and the union -- stand in a line. 
 it actual a wast of time to debat the merit of each case, becaus under our current tort system, it realli doesn't matter who was wrong or respons for the injury.in this society, if someon get hurt, somebody, anybodi must pay -- and a line of hungri trial lawyer will be wait outsid the hospit room to get a share of the action. 
 but while alysheba win made him big stuff with the turf cognoscenti, it was, as usual, onli a rumor to a larg part of the throng of 130,000 that annual turn the old twin-spir track into the nation biggest picnic grounds.behind me in the serpentin taxi line outsid the track after the race was a sunburn young coupl lug a huge cooler. 
 but not near as mani immigr show up the first day as had been expected.th wait-and-se attitud among wari illeg immigr was typifi by rudolfo aspara contreras, a nativ of michoacan, mexico, who spent the morn observ a line of applic outsid a houston process center. 
 the distribut of applications, and the process of the few turn in yesterday, appear to go smooth in most locations.th in had brace for a crush of applicants; in houston, for instance, when long line began form a day early, offici pass out applic to about 1,000 befor the law actual took effect. 
 he frequent the flea markets.h line up daili outsid state part shops, finger a list of scarc bit and pieces. 
 should the fda new rule on experiment drug go into effect without be compromised, they will be a watersh event in american medic science.th u.s., which possess the intellectu and financi resourc to produc some of the world most use medic interventions, has for year labor under a system that made american stand at the end of the line for these treatments. 
 dure his control tenure, which end in 1983, he did sever refresh stint behind restaur counters."som peopl on the cook line would tell me that my name sound familiar; then they would realiz it on their paychecks," he says. 
 the 76-year-old physician latest study, publish in the octob 1986 issu of the american heart journal, found that heart-attack victim cut their risk for a second attack in half by complet train he has devised.th two-year program at the meyer friedman institut in san francisco includ patience-build drill such as drive in the slow lane of traffic or stand in long line at banks. 
 but whi are mr. hodel and secretari of energi john herrington tri to resurrect anoth "energi crisis"?mr. hodel has warn of line at the gas pump in "two to five years." 
 the hospit director is taken away by the secret police.th novel end with a vivid taxi ride to the american embassi in tehran, surround by angri crowd who will overrun it and take hostag in just a few months, and with a final burst of imperialist frenzi on line at the caviar shop in the tehran airport minut befor the jet take off for geneva, los angel and new york. 
 the platform is crowd with soldier buy ticket to chimoio, the next stop on the corridor.a boy with a basketball, which could use some air, also wait in line. 
 he arous an angri backlash in canada when he suggest that canada is demand strong u.s. acid-rain control to improv it own energi export to the u.s.hi wide-rang comment on energi polici have irrit energi secretari john herrington, who has public disagre with mr. hodel predict of gasolin shortag and gas-stat line in two to five years. 
 "thing may never turn back like they were," say jame t. trado, the senior vice presid and general manag of mazda motor of america eastern u.s. operations."w went sever year without enough vehicl -- custom were wait in line. 
 it just declasse," said joel silverman, a money manag attend the conference."i'd rather go out and pay retail for the stuff than wait in line for a free album." 
 he continu at this often thankless job, he says, becaus of the "injustic out there."h recal hand out food last christma to a long line of laid-off workers: "it made me want to hold on to the job i have." 
 the joke russian tell among themselv are more pointed.marshal goldman, co-director of harvard russian research center, heard this one: two russian are stand in a long line to buy vodka, grumbl about gorbachev restrict on liquor-stor hours. 
 lament over deterior standard of public courtesi are near as old as civilization, so perhap those who feel besieg by rampant rude are simpli respond to new form of rude made possibl by social and technolog changes.th advent of large, self-servic supermarket and depart store has made it possibl for the inconsider to wheel full shop cart into express checkout lines. 
 ibm has said it has receiv ten of thousand of order for 9370s, and analyst general put the number at 40,000 to 45,000.the analyst said, though, that mani custom place those order just to get in line for an earli deliveri and could still withdraw the order without penalti if the 9370 doesn't seem to meet expectations. 
 at delta kogyo co. plant in hiroshima, for example, two women oper three machin that turn out seat-reclin devic for mazda.until october, the work took three peopl -- one for each machin -- but the seat maker found that by arrang the machin in a circl instead of a straight line, two worker were enough. 
 bowler earl anthoni was suppos to begin a practic session for the true valu open at 10:30 a.m. at landmark lane here on tuesday, but the cluster of autograph seeker was so deep around him that he couldn't shake free until about 10:45.as he bowled, new line formed, and for the next hour he halt his exert everi 10 minut or so to accommod them. 
 advoc of systemat invest say it imposs to time the market and that most individu investor get kill trying."it like tri to pick the fastest line at the bank," say bryan mattes, assist vice presid of the vanguard group of mutual fund in valley forge, pa. 
 and mani express the hope for continu clear, mild weather.sunshin eas the pain of stand in long line to enter some crowd store along new york fifth avenue. 
 on saturday, from morn until dusk, there were more than 100 peopl line up to enter f.a.o. schwarz new toy store at 58th street and fifth.said one man who had been in line 20 minutes, "put it this way: i wouldn't be here in a blizzard." 
 but the compani recogn that improv servic requir chang that can't be measur in numbers."go for 87 is turn glare into gleams," eastern employe newslett says, show photo of glower custom in long line at ticket counters. 
 the rule involv the area that, although technical, is import in determin where lawsuit may be brought, and where compani and other defend may be forc to defend themselves.in a long line of decisions, the suprem court has said there must be "minimum contacts" between a compani and a state befor the compani can be su in that state. 
 that trend intensifi when, start in 1981, nissan motor co. built it smyrna, tenn., plant, larg without union workers.th toyota plant was seen by the union as "the second domino in what we fear would be a long line of loss on major construct projects," mr. hammond says. 
 she is from a polit family: her mother, a member of the school board in manchest for 13 years, work in the presidenti campaign of wilbur mill and lyndon johnson here, and miss reardon rememb lick envelop for a democrat gubernatori candid at age four."from the grubby, what-do-i-get-out-of-it? view of politics, there a long line of peopl who are ahead of me in the hart campaign," say miss reardon, who is interest in arms-control issues, troubl by the deficit and oppos to oper of the nuclear power plant at seabrook. 
 the men stretch their feet and pay attent to correct arm positions.th women hold their shoulder at a grace angle, maintain a clean, unbroken line and use their eye as an adjunct to express of movement. 
 the compani blame expansion-rel cost and a more competit u.k. govern bond market.just befor that, a canadian financi and health concern, crownx inc., bought a 14.9% stake in mercantil house, join a line of foreign swoop in on british financi houses. 
 as the afternoon wore on, an air of crisi hung about the firm.televis cameramen, chase out of the lobbi of the firm headquart by secur guards, hover around the long line of limousin park outsid goldman headquarters. 
 but even the improv american prospect didn't turn this event into a gate attraction.on saturday, when the sun shone bright and temperatur were in the 50s, the line of car tri to get into a car wash across the highway from the 400-meter oval at the wisconsin state fairground was longer than that seek admiss to the races. 
 the most fundament element of a program to deal with the present disequilibrium in the world economi is to rememb that the price system works, and attempt to fix price alway produc mischief.in the 1970s, the u.s. saw gasolin price as the problem and therebi impos on itself long line at fill stations. 
 while cathol and jewish agenc have had enough bed to accommod children of those religions, protest agenc have not.that has meant that non-cathol and non-jewish children have had to get at the end of the line for accept into agencies, sole becaus of their religion. 
 mr. smyth and the three hunter continu their ridge-top hunt and within minut were in the midst of more flush prairi chickens.th hunter at the left of the line, the one who had yet to bag a bird, was quick to score. 
 organizers, who expect mayb 2,000 or 3,000 visitors, were stun by what happened.near 30,000 peopl show up, some wait in line for three hours. 
 "you'll have to look in your miracl section for an answer."miracl or not, st. nichola icon is attract such throng that parishion must put in long hour organ the line of tourists. 
 some believ say the madonna is spill tear of joy.but after wait in line for an hour to see the icon the other day, alic stavrid take a dimmer view: "it mean societi had better shape up." 
 the committe civilian anti-crim squad have stop their night patrols.resid say they miss the committe weekend soup lines, which enrich their diet of rice, bean and bananas. 
 to salomon brothers, which in octob claim anoth in a long line of first stake out by wall street firm last year. 
 from georg washington time on up to 1932, you were abl on new year day to shake hand with the presid of the unit states.you just got in line, no question asked, and wait your turn. 
 john w. hunefeld," read a jan. 2, 1936, news item, ". . . walk through the snow to the white hous today to retain a hollow title.sinc 1926 hunefeld had claim the distinct of be first in line for the tradit new year day recept there. 
 curmudgeon are horrifi by warren burger plan for celebr the bicentenni of the constitution.h want 50 million copi of the holi document print on cereal box and sold in supermarket checkout lines. 
 that not to say that mr. wilson has abandon his characterist bag of stage tricks: he send vultures, gees and heron flap lazili through the air; he perch a giant sing owl on a tree limb; robert e. lee float weightless in space; and abraham lincoln, tall as a house, waft across the stage like some benign monster, then goe belli up.th intric lighting, by bever emmon and mr. wilson, make magic of a line of singer in christoph de menil billow black robes, or of a narrow ladder silhouet against a bare drop. 
 to cut vodka consumpt in the battl against alcoholism, a liter bottl -- a treasur solac for mani russian -- was more than doubl in price to 15 rubles, or about one-tenth of the averag worker month pay.product was curbed, and half the liquor store were closed, increas the averag wait in line to three hours. 
 by midnight, the moon is an intens white spotlight beam on no less than 50-odd ensembl and hundr of onlookers.som partier practic wait in line for the prime spot: a gape hole in the barn below the illumin "live bluegrass music" sign from which lucki one sit and swing their legs. 
 his deputy, william ruckelshaus also refused, and mr. nixon fire him.then mr. nixon turn to the person who was third in line, solicitor general bork. 
 two other station just pump gas.but stand in the midst of them, with it servic bay full and car wait in line, is a minit-lub center. 
 on weekdays, there often no wait.but on stella link road dure a typic saturday rush recently, the line to get into the minit-lub servic bay was at least an hour long. 
 it cost of $22 billion is more than four time libya estim petroleum earn in 1986.the averag libyan must pay for this by stand longer in line for scarc consum goods. 
 "i'd hit ball nights, mornings, when it rained, when it snow -- i could never get enough golf," rememb zembriski."on friday night after work, i use to sleep in the car at public cours so i could be the first in line, as soon as they open the doors. 
 his friend look at him in disbelief."if you realli think that," elia says, "whi aren't you in line appli for amnesty?" 
 they have high regard for some studies, while other research, even if it has enjoy brief, intens popularity, get debunk as unsupport or mislead (includ konrad lorenz "critic period").for parent overwhelm by the advic of so mani researchers, their own pediatricians, and even the cashier in checkout lines, this sift of the evid is useful. 
 the author find littl empir evid to support a posit answer to these questions.parents, then, can nod and smile to the ann landers of the checkout line and escap with their confid intact. 
 he assert that few other compani have the resourc or the desir to take on jwt."if there are ani other bidders, i think the line at the door is veri short," he said. 
 the industri technolog track record in other area is spottier: the know-how is there, but the willing or abil to use it lag far behind.travel today still wait in long line at baggag check-in or at the departur gate -- procedur that can be automated. 
 he say he slip away from his protest doctor, stagger into a govern press confer and announc that he knew the man ident and want to confirm that there was a reward.mr. batuiga made his reput in the 1970s by sever time pass through polic sieg line to negoti the surrend of gunmen who were hold hostages. 
 presid reagan is warn that if the u.s. navi doesn't defend oil ship in the persian gulf, american may soon be wait in gasolin line again. 
 the kid could then take their squid print home to tack on their bedroom wall or stick on the refriger with a squid magnet purchas at the souvenir booth.ther was a long line at the squid face-paint booth, from which small children emerg with larg squid bodi paint on their forehead and 10 squid leg extend down their cheeks. 
 it is also an easi polit target, and it imag of ineffici and corrupt is a drain on the sandinista lag popular support.micoin is wide blame for more problem than ani 11,000-member ministri could ever possibl hope to fix -- from the extra hour consum must wait in line for ration food, to fall agricultur product caus by micoin stifl price controls, to the prolifer of a polit hostil class of small merchant oper outsid the socialist-plan economy. 
 at a micoin neighborhood food store in managua santa ana sur barrio, resid blame the ministri for distribut spoil cook oil that give their children indigestion.onc everi 15 day barrio housew leav bricks, empti paint can and bottl cap outsid the store at 9 a.m. to secur a place in line for the 1:30 p.m. opening. 
 the nikolai quarter, for example, sport a set of new dine accommodations, but a recent hunt for a restaur lunch there was as depress as ever.lin spill out into the street and around corners. 
 mr. trinkl said he recommend that the worker accept the offer after the compani threaten to replac the strikers."w didn't have ani other job for our peopl and i didn't want to put them on the welfar line," he said. 
 the bloomingdal store at the mall, manag john guerra said, post a "double-digit increase" in decemb sale this year.and store throughout the mall were especi crowd the day after christmas, with shopper wait in line for the door to open at 9 a.m. and then flock to the bargain in the trim-a-tre section at bloomingdal to buy decor for next christmas. 
 a cook at a local italian restaurant, the 38-year-old ms. figueroa sat in the back seat of her nephew car so that she would have her own window to roll down.whil mr. parra hope his drive-up window will shorten the line insid the center, he hasn't yet figur out what he'll do if it caus traffic jams. 
 "it wasn't obvious how the assembl process went," he recalls."i said to myself i don't know where the line start and ends. 
 "canada is still tri to get some leverag from the u.s." said mr. waitzer, who warn foreign firm are lose interest in the canadian market."you can onli keep them wait in line for so long," he said. 
 "if i'v ever attend an electr evening," the general motor chairman said on a detroit radio talk show last week, "that was it."h went on: "they have a veri nice custom there of a receiv line.and as i went through the receiv line with my wife barbara, why, we'v gotten to know the presid well enough that his aid doesn't have to introduc us to him, he recogn us. 
 "we told him he could bid with other developers," say meyer frucher, the presid of the batteri park citi authority."sam said he didn't want to stand in a delicatessen line." 
 although mr. aganbegyan is believ to have mr. gorbachev ear on issu of econom reform, he is onli one of mani offici work out detail of what could be a veri controversi and disrupt chang in the soviet economy.an econom reformer, mr. aganbegyan believ that lower subsidi would make the economi more effici and reduc the line and shortag that soviet consum current endure. 
 in fact, she mock herself for occasion exploit it."lik i'll walk into a deli and go right up to the head of a line as though i don't know there a line there and say, i'd like . . . ' or i'll buy a ticket for a movi and go up to the secur guard and say my dog realli can't stand in that line, and he'll say, well, come right in.'" 
 the real bargain go to those tourist with the strong currency.for example, just stand outsid a loui vuitton shop in hong kong and watch middle-class japanes alight from tourist buse and form line on the sidewalk, say mr. white. 
 last year, hutton took a $130 million charg against fourth-quart earn for liabilitii relat to municip bond it had improp sold to custom a few year ago, and merril fear there could be more of such problems, these sourc said.hutton, found in 1904, thus becom the latest in a long line of major secur firm to seek a larger parent. 
 but most major expans effort won't be complet for at least anoth year.in the meantime, travel must risk miss flight becaus they can't find spaces, or must wait in long line to get through exit toll booths. 
 in the meantime, travel must risk miss flight becaus they can't find spaces, or must wait in long line to get through exit toll booths.at newark, though, long line can pay off; driver are occasion let through the booth without paying. 
 in 1978, the year air travel was deregulated, the airlin carri 275 million passengers; this year, the total is expect to be more than 450 million.thi mean crowd park lots, long line in restrooms, flight delay and tedious wait for baggag -- which the faa say are bound to worsen unless airport capac is added. 
 a chao of car and tent and trailer cover a field of trampl tall grass.in late afternoon, bath suit flap on clotheslines, and a line has form outsid the showers. 
 a hundr cowboy and cowgirl race their hors into the arena, the rider forward in their saddl urg the hors faster, circl the arena on the run befor form two parallel line that stretch from one end of the space to the other. 
 in recent months, conga-record break has becom serious business, taint with fierc rivalri and mayb even espionage, all for one sweet goal: a spot in the 1988 "guin book of world records."th race heat up about three week ago, when 10,442 peopl shuffl into a line at the edmonton heritag festiv in alberta, canada, aim to break the previous record of 8,659, set in 1982 in great britain.it took two hour to put the canadian line together, for a conga that last nine minutes. 
 they will use their new-found conga skill to guid a hord of challeng tomorrow on the royal gorg bridg in southern colorado.lorrain payne, who help arrang the line in edmonton, claim she saw the men look for potenti snag and take photograph at her event. 
 ben hart, one of the two men in question, maintain that he start plan the royal gorg event in earli march, well befor the canadian attempt: "it was strict coincidental.w had no idea about the edmonton line until it happened." 
 to break the record, the dancer will have to follow certain rules, say david hoy, manag director of the record book editori offic in middlesex, england.at least 10,443 peopl will have to actual danc -- hand on hip to a syncop latin rhythm -- and the line will have to remain unbroken. 
 "i'm make $5.50 an hour (in houston); in mexico i was make 7,000 peso (about $5) a week."yesterday he took his place in line at midnight. 
 like most bueno air ministries, it is suffus with stale cigarett smoke.th occup appear to be main bore but loquaci hangers-on, who must wait in line 20 minut for the elev to the top floor. 
 but good intent sometim aren't good enough.on recent day, as a jostl crowd of cuban wait in line for more than an hour to get their month allow of beans, rice and other foodstuffs, one of mr. leiva freezer was out of order. 
 those number should improv in 1987 becaus bank have pledg to lend more than $9 billion to mexico, argentina and nigeria this year.but there is a long line of debtor countri look for more loans. 
 whi not talk your way out of your woes?if that sound appealing, get in line, becaus sport psychoanalysi is boom among psychologists, psychiatrist and other aim to tap the lucrat health-and-fit craze. 
 if the model now under scrutini are found to be defective, gm will recal and repair them, he said.th consum group said one of the worst accid involv the car occur in cincinnati on march 3 when, it said, a 1986 oldsmobil delta 88 sudden acceler and ran into a line of custom stand outsid a restaurant. 
 commerci bank trader with firsthand knowledg of the intervent estim that the fed sold $100 million through sever bank in earli new york trading, short after the bundesbank sold a like amount in the open market in frankfurt.th central bank form a skirmish line for the dollar at 1.8840 marks, where they sold the currency, knowledg trader said. 
 in addition, wolfgang r. schmitt, presid of rubbermaid home product division, was name execut vice presid of the company, place him in line to succeed mr. william in the no. 2 spot.in make the announcement, mr. gault said, "we have now provid a clear line of succession" when he retir in 1991 as chairman and chief executive. 
 "how doe the 60s song go about the age of aquarius?w had all the planet in line," mr. channel said. 
 the new law could, of course, provid work for the homeless, who are the one most skill at this task.but how long will the line be at the conserv center? 
 i can do a lot of things.you won't see me at the food stamp line . . . and we'r not go to run a telethon and ask for contributions." 
 these power includ the withhold of materi formal request by the congress.georg washington was the first of a long line of presid to insist on this prerog of the office. 
 "the problem with continent servic is it so unpredictable," say hal salfen, an industri consultant."i had absolut splendid, perfect servic fli continent to guam, but when i got to los angeles, it was back to long line and rude counter help." 
 i wonder if those support the bill ever took a sick child and two well one to the doctor for a routin ill such as an ear infect or strep throat.did they then face anoth 20-plus minut at the drugstor with the same three whini children, one in pain and the other two frustrat while an overwork pharmacist attempt to serv a long line of customers? 
 what custom do is get in the queue.each day, line of them snake across the lobbi of telmex branch offic in the capit to report broken telephones. 
 but the line move slowly; the dispatch typic take 40 minut to answer."thi has happen to me four or five time sinc february," say televis repairman jorg recio garcia, wait in line to report his broken telephone. 
 still anoth say a car crash in his neighborhood two week ago and knock out phone service; no one has come to restor it."thi is horribl -- veri ugly," say the branch manager, whose offic look out over the line of angri customers. 
 compani headquart stand tall over central mexico citi in a vagu m-shape tower.ther are no line of angri customers, no cow managers, no bossi subordinates. 
 "the (baseball) commission job is taken," sniff peter v. ueberroth, who hold the post."besides, he'd have to get in line behind bryant gumbel," the televis newscaster, who said in a recent interview that he want the job. 
 the sign in the airport cafeteria reads: "it is not rude to move ahead of someon if there is a space in the line." 
 i love this sign.i love it becaus it so blith challeng one of the basic tenet i was rais by -- that it is rude to jump ahead of someon in line. 
 but darn it, i just don't want to appear rude."everi time i stand in that line i expect to see some bur construct worker push in front of an elder woman. 
 he seem to believ that south vietnam fell, in part, becaus u.s. command unwis restrain south vietnames militari commanders.and, as much as some of his other critic of the west ring true (peopl get more excit about solo adventur sail the sea in small boat than ten of thousand of vietnames boat peopl cruelli adrift), they aren't origin in thought or expression, but echo the long line of comment who see the west imperil by it love of comfort and lack of intellect. 
 some foreign countri and industri have hire washington lobbyist and law firm to help and have press u.s. compani do busi with them to pitch in as well.sen financ committe chairman lloyd bentsen (d., texas), who co-sponsor the trade bill with sen. john danforth (r., mo.), says: "there a long line of foreign repres wait to see me. 
 but southland could win over custom like mrs. dallas, the denver legal secretary, who rent movi for her son and buy sandwich at the 7-eleven when they'r on special."if they could prove their milk was cheap enough, then i would go to the conveni store to avoid the line at the groceri store," she says. 
 "the real financi and social problem of the countri are deepli rooted," thornton manag ltd., a british fund-manag group, says.in addition, with the economi and stock market recovering, the govern is speed approv of the long line of compani want to issu shares. 
 in southern california, however, where develop have been especi active, legisl and communiti group complain that the mini-mal have led to a host of problem that can't be ignor ani longer.oppon complain that the mini-mal design -- typic a collect of a dozen or so store group in a line or a u-shap or l-shape behind a park lot that front the street -- make them uninvit to pedestrians. 
 but it also said jal and govern transport author fail to detect the flaw dure sever routin inspections.th report said the boe work crew insert a singl line of rivet to the bulkhead when repair a broken tail section, instead of a doubl line as required. 
 "it start to aggrav our agent and inconveni our passengers," say marc wallace, a unit vice president.unit employe began suggest to the continent passeng that they defect to unit shorter line. 
 dinner-t convers was record by the kgb, which made soviet citizen fear of ideolog misstatements, which made their dinner-t convers boring.but not as bore as shop in soviet groceri stores, wait in long lines, be abus by sur state employees, and find almost noth for sale. 
 battl the crowd on new york fifth avenu was no less challenging.ther were long line of shopper wait to enter f.a.o. schwarz, a children toy store, and the fashion trump tower. 
 no heat: from bureaucrat and hotel clerk to students, everyon sit around all day long in overcoat from octob through april.no food: everyth from milk to rice is rationed, but long line and limit suppli mean peopl often wind up with onli a ration ticket on the dinner tabl -- some peopl could show you whole crock fill with expir coupons. 
 sever nation don't count oil as produc until it is sold.thus, kuwait can insist that it is within it product quota even though line of load tanker sail through the persian gulf would suggest otherwise. 
 but mr. walser doe not leav it at that."breakers" doe not end up as anoth in a long line of stori about rigid german who cut loos and lose their digniti in a relaxed, sunni climate. 
 "if we do see consum start to make that connect -- connect the problem on wall street to unemploy that affect them -- then we'll see much more impact on sales," mr. curtin said."with the oil embargo, from day one it was immedi clear to consum what it meant to them personally: longer lines, higher prices. 
 fred mutter someth aloud about how, after all, his student didn't realli know how to drive, and you never knew when she might step on the gas pedal.th line parted, and fred, wield his lollipop stick, motion for me to move on. 
 magnet extend bank hour at the branch on friday and saturday.aft mr. wall statement was releas and distribut by magnet officials, some of the line thin at the branches. 
 "home shop is quick, clean (and) painless," say the roper study."no long lines. 
 and mani of the respons came right out of the music.for instance, the gallop marimba line did suggest the hors run alongsid a train describ by noah from new york. 
 the ghost town at knott berri farm theme park is usual a pretti cheeri place, bustl with cowboy stage shootout on the storefront boardwalks, folk buy souvenir and snack from calico-clad shopkeepers, and line stream onto the park log ride. 
 "the new york stock exchang did not blow up.ther were no line at banks." 
 right now you may be ask yourself: "whi not me?mi boss is a jerk, i'm sick of long line at the bank dure lunch and onli now, decad after kindergarten, have i come to fulli understand the import of a nice nap right after lunch." 
 after the swim meet my wife and i watch as my daughter danc at a team get-together.it made me rememb parish-hous danc when we boy would wait in line to danc slow number with a prematur endow girl name anne.i check the danc floor for my daughter -- no line were forming, yet. 
 they put up with appal and often danger condit becaus other job are hard to come by and becaus the pay, while low by u.s. standards, goe a long way back home.danilo pineda, a filipino ship cook, say that in manila the line of seafar at man agenc are grow longer. 
 it is obvious to anyon that the general qualiti of consum product of all kind is poor, not onli by comparison with those avail in the west but even with the eastern european import that are for sale in the soviet union.and the long line to buy qualiti food or cloth when they happen to be avail demonstr the malfunct of the soviet price system and of the state inabl to produc what consum want. 
 a tall, blond woman push a babi girl in a kanga-rol stroller conced that her time was unusual."but we realli know what commit is about and we'r readi to make it," she said, wait her turn in line. 
 great america, a santa clara, calif., amus park, brag about it thrill roller coaster.but if you want to do someth realli wild, tri cut in line. 
 santa clara won't comment on the lawsuit -- but it will defend it law, adopt in 1986 after the citi bought the amus park.th law make line cutting, shove and other form of rowdi a crime punish by a $1,000 fine or six month in jail. 
 "well, we'r not talk about the hell angel here," fume mr. ince, who note that his client includ an engin and a banker.in the lawsuit, mr. inc say his client hadn't actual cut into line but had step out of line for a moment -- with the permiss of those around them. 
 in another, two client had soak their cloth on a previous great america water ride."th line they were in was in shade, so they stood off to the side in the sun to dri their clothes," say mr. ince.when they tri to reclaim their place in line, however, secur guard nab them and, with littl explanation, turn them over to citi polic who drove them in a paddi wagon for book at the citi jail, the suit alleges. 
 she will say, however, that with two million peopl visit the park annually, the number of line-cut arrest is negligible."besides," she says, "you shouldn't leav the line to get a hot dog." 
 with fewer than 70 shop day till christmas, million of american are avoid long lines, bad weather and crowd park lot by do some or all of their christma shop by mail. 
 he fire those he didn't like, with onli the briefest of explanations, if any.b call to his offic "was like be summon to see god," said lee a. iacocca, now chrysler corp. chairman and perhap the most famous of a line of former ford presid first beknight and later behead by mr. ford. 
 should player and owner resolv their gripe in the next day or two, everybodi will be have a good laugh about all this at next week tailgat parti in stadium park lot across the country. (the two side met for 90 minut yesterday and are schedul to meet again today.)but if the strike drag on anywher near the 57 day of the 1982 strike, a lot of peopl along new york madison avenu and "broadcast row," home to the major advertis and televis networks, will be stand on line to renegoti contract worth hundr of million of dollars. 
 rep. frank annunzio, a rough-hewn chicago machin pol who is the third-rank committe member, is in frail health and isn't like to seek the chairmanship.oth down the senior line eye the post includ del. 
 but then, he went home to massachusetts, devot much of his time to routin state hous duti instead of focus on the campaign.mr. bush wast no time in open an attack on the governor for be just anoth in a long line of liber democrat politician out of touch with the american mainstream. 
 taiwan will export three million person comput this year, up 50% from 1987.long line form outsid disco that charg $20 a head, and $5 a beer, to danc to the beat of import bands. 
 "the thing that hit hardest was the energi crisis," mr. atkin said.if someon "had to wait in line for gas for his car, he couldn't justify" wait for gas for a snowmobile. 
 monday, nov. 7, 7-7:30 p.m. est, on hbo (repeat nov. 11, 16, 20, 26 and 28): "madeline."don't miss this music version of the famous children book that begins: "in an old hous in pari that was cover in vines/liv twelv littl girl in two straight lines." 
 but it had reduc alcohol hard at all while spawn extens moonshin and black-marketeering.it result in sugar hoard for privat product and long line for limit quantiti of vodka. 
 at tampa bay in the nfl, where he sign a six-year, $5.25 million contract, life was financi more secure, but profession precarious.flung into action against the big-tim pros behind a weak line, young threw almost twice as mani intercept as touchdowns, and fled with the ball more often than he ran it. 
 and they reflect the grow turmoil in the u.s. bond trade industry, weaken by anem profit and intens foreign competition.th departur of the three execut mark yet anoth outbreak in a long line of defect and dismiss that have roil the giant secur firm over the past year. 
 "can you imagin thousand of kid walk into these offices, get urin samples, and present them to state offici to be tested?th line would be mile long." 
 there are more charact in the novel than in the film, and consequ more seduct and betrayals.i could critic the film for cut a coupl of these characters, as well as for hammer the novel whirling, vertigin shape into a straight chronolog line. 
 at the sprawl 207th street repair shop in upper manhattan, this shift promis new disciplin for employe use to meet minimum work quota and then have a littl time to themselves.work sudden face dismiss for insubordin or inebriation, or suspens for lesser infract like spend long period in the coffe line or the bathroom. 
 after the fervor of a campaign in which the regim portray the poll as a choic between itself and marxist chaos, there was a hush solemn and respect dure the oct. 5 voting.not a voic was raised, not a badg worn nor banner carried, as peopl wait in long line to put a pencil mark on a piec of paper. 
 "i'd say the $1 million to $15 million market has been the most competit arena of commerci lend in florida for the last few years," say william h. allen jr., chairman of miami-bas atico financi corp. and a former ncnb execut in florida.first union corp., the other charlott bank giant, date it own "sale culture" back to 1984, when it began make a scienc of shorten teller lines, cross-sel product and spot-check employe courtesy. 
 they caus traffic jam in the park lot.they form checkout line that wound all the way back to the meat department. 
 so even though burger king can boast that it whopper hamburg beat mcdonald big mac in tast tests, it has been lose sale becaus it can't promis it custom an ident experi from one burger king to the next.whil one restaur may sparkle, anoth may have long lines, pot hole in the park lot and filthi tables. 
 these days, lishen toy factori can hard keep up with demand.sal soar this summer, when long line of buyer form outsid shanghai no. 1 depart store. 
 militari patrol comb the street of the capital, but there was no sign of disord after a night of uncertainti tuesday that was punctuat by power cut and occasion explosions.peopl wait patient in long line to cast their ballots. 
 gen. pinochet has express "particular faith in the women of chile."fin result had been expect around midnight, but the long line delay the vote count. 
 "we feel comfort that the next time they (united) go to kick tire and look for airplan to buy, we have a good, fair shot with them," an airbus spokesman said.th a-320 transact by unit would have given pan am bad need cash in return for give up it spot in line for the new planes. 
 but by february, when geraghti & miller inc. was brought public by alex.brown along with robertson, it had 125 institut wait in line. 
 critic say that in win preferenti treatment, the debartolo organ play all the right polit note -- includ hire a former governor chief of staff to be track director of oper and grant a $165,000 food servic contract to a compani own by the state speaker of the house.remington is off to a rous start despit some opening-day snafus, which includ slow line at bet window that prevent a number of peopl from wagering. 
 that the trip was a success is due to the georgian themselves, a smile dark-hair peopl who even in the darkest brezhnev day impress the beatl rock group enough to make them write in their song "back in the u.s.s.r." the word "georgia alway on my mind."long befor perestroika the healthi georgian black market provid it citizen with a standard of live here far differ from leningrad and moscow, the citi of food lines. 
 as for new home sales, the outlook continu weak, as evidenc by the 3.3% drop in august hous start out last week.mr. resler ad in jest that anoth "indicator" he like to watch is "the hostil level in groceri checkout lines." 
 they must be ku klux klanner or something.but as mr. newman suggests, about all that distinguish yonker from other citi is it bad luck to be first in line. 
 wind-whip fire race through the sierra nevada foothills, char near 30,000 acres, destroy about a dozen home and prompt about 4,500 peopl to evacuate.in wyoming, firefight took advantag of damp weather to strengthen line around blaze that have burn near one million acr in yellowston nation park. 
 "the whole town has come to aid, but even that is insufficient," he says.a long line, most of women carri small children, stretch outsid the medic tent. 
 the seller of radish and cucumb are bored.so are the frozen fish merchants, but the poultri dealer are busy, watch vacant by custom in line. 
 the close of the cameron plant dash farmer hope of expand market for their promis new crop.with the plant vanish the job of 58 resid and the line of truck that snake into town dure the annual harvest. 
 here at the festspielhaus, the world wagner shrine, they have found the antidot for the master long opera -- long intermiss and long buffets.in a ritual i never grow tire of seeing, the blond young man lift the cover off the tureen and the mere glimps of those fat, white, green-fleck weisswurst readi to bust their skin reviv everybodi on line like the unveil of the holi grail in the master "parsifal." 
 judg pollack, who is known as a tough, brilliant jurist, agre wednesday to do so.th altercation, wit by a long line of attorney wait to file court pleadings, last a minut or so, say a rather baffl mr. pomarico. 
 african bee general domin in mating, but the scientist hope to give a numer edg to the calmer european honeybees, the type wide use throughout north america for honey product and crop pollination.farth north, research are set hundr of trap along three lines: a 100-mile stretch from the coastal town of la pesca to ciudad victoria in mexico; a 125-mile line from tampico to ocampo, also in mexico; and a 100-mile section of the rio grande, rough from brownsville, texas, to rio grand city. 
 "out on long island, there are peopl who are hook on drive-throughs.they'd rather be in a line of 10 to 15 car than park and get out," said a spokesman for chemic bank, a unit of chemic bank corp. 
 if you want to wait in line to climb the statu of liberti or the washington monument, go ahead. 
 in shanghai, china biggest metropolis, consum are withdraw huge sum from save deposit to purchas good in anticip of price increases.long line are form at mani save banks, accord to china daily, which estim that $27 million has been withdrawn in the past two weeks. 
 solut from franc weren't much help.canadian use the north american "qwerty" keyboard, name for the sequenc of key on the top line of letters. 
 elsewhere, earthi is catch on.a brazilian beer commerci show men stand at a line of urin sing the beer theme song. 
 then the women are banish to the sidelines, and the men begin to display their strength.at one point, six of them form a tower of bodies, while a line of smile women, seem unawar of anyth but the music impel them, undul slowli around the group. 
 a substanti contribut to the increas product over the next two year is suppos to be made by the baltic state of latvia and estonia, which have long turn out better-qu good than factori elsewher in the soviet union.a they wait in line at stores, mani soviet grumbl that the varieti and qualiti of product on sale actual have worsen sinc the day of the now-discredit leader leonid brezhnev. 
 mr. levenson has boost his to about 2.5%, produc tv commerci base on the 1960s lovin spoon song, "did you ever have to make up your mind."h is remodel store to speed up the serv line by split off the slow-mov dessert and beverag section from the entre and veget line. 
 mr. questrom resign follow that announc in may.found in 1907 by henri c. marcus and famili members, neiman marcus becam known for it pricey merchandise, extravag custom and line of wait limousin that had ferri some patron from the airport. 
 one reason is that disneyland encourag photo-tak by lend camera without charge, and set up design photo sites.peopl tend to take pictur of -- and thus rememb -- onli pleasant scene like the cute shot with mickey mouse, and not the long line at the ladi room. 
 but their opinion is clear not share by larg number of the soviet public.sinc mr. glazunov latest exhibit open in moscow this summer, thousand have been flock to the palac of youth, wait in line for hour to get in. 
 peopl stood in long line outsid the few oper bakeri and food store in the sudanes capit yesterday, after flood left about 1.5 million homeless and at least 11 dead. 
 "over here is the gay parti line," steve craig, megaquest offic manag in new york, says, point to one bank of monitors."thi is the actress and model line in here." 
 live condit are cramp and spartan, and temperatur usual top 100 degrees.two chow lines, "one spici and one regular," meet the need of both the militari and about 50 indian and filipino civilian worker live aboard, he said. 
 sever speaker at the recent communist parti confer warn that ordinari citizen would be reluct to back the rest of mr. gorbachev reform program unless they could see a clear improv in their live standard and the quantiti of good avail in stores.mani basic foodstuff such as meat, flour and sugar are ration in part of the soviet union, and everywher peopl have to stand in long line for them. 
 yet anoth casualti may be overal spend in restaurants, alreadi slow from the 8% annual gain post in the mid-1980s.consult say mani peopl who have trade up from fast-food chain to sit-down eateri will be get back in the hamburg line. 
 the polish german usual can say no more than "ja" or "nein," but may have advanc degre as teacher or engineers.both group now face sever day of wait in line, with stop at the red cross, at social worker -- and at a cashier who hand out $108 in pocket money to each arrival. 
 the lobbi is elabor decorated, but noisy.larg group of guest wait in line for elev and check-out service. 
 "or a medium?"arkansa gov. bill clinton, the latest in a line of white southern given prime spot at the convention, deliv the sole nomin speech for mr. dukakis, and the governor first campaign swing with sen. bentsen tomorrow is design to re-emphas his commit to challeng the gop in everi region of the nation. 
 by last april, when mr. clausen took his first week off, his fast pace had scare off his first administr assist and run other ragged."th man has an iron will," say an offici onc strand with him in a three-hour recept line at a convent -- without a bathroom break. 
 student of econom learn that this is simpli not true.russian consum now wait in line to buy lemon at a low price. 
 carrier were allow to keep fli the first 291 aircraft off the product line, although they receiv feder aviat administr order to inspect regular for corros in the cold-bond joints.on scenario investig are consid in the aloha case is that corrosion-rel fatigu may have led to "multisit damage" crack run along the horizont line of rivet in a metal splice. 
 in moscow, parti banner aside, the preval ad are the one stuck to lampposts; each has a fring of phone number to tear off and call for puppi or guitar lessons.th queue is still the most effect soviet ad; a russian will join a long line without a clue as to what is for sale at the other end. 
 and sever hundr deleg actual vote against confer resolutions.that was headi stuff, and here in moscow, soviet citizen were talk about it in parks, while wait in line at store and to western correspondents. 
 he fill his car and six big canisters, endur hostil comment from fellow customers.at noon, a truck deliv more gas, reassur those at the end of the 120-car line monitor by polic to prevent doubl parking. 
 i see the crowd and i don't want to stand in line," said krzystof tom.h ultim took a place in line. 
 twin valu stores, for example, will cover 180,000 squar feet -- three time the size of the typic cavern cub store.each store will have 51 checkout lines, requir 600 employe and, compani sourc say, is expect to gross well over $1 million a week. 
 depend on wind direction, that can elimin the use of one of three arriv runways.still, some industri execut and observ wonder whether ani improv in delay would even be noticed, what with the litani of complaint about lost luggage, long line and crowd planes. 
 saatchi & saatchi also hit a high note with an ad creat for britain conserv parti in 1978.the ad featur a pictur of a long line of unemployed. 
 meantime, hungri passeng have to order from mobil cart scatter around the terminal.continent insist that sufficient, but the line to get to the cart are often long -- and there are few place to sit and eat. 
 it is the parent compani of audi of america inc., which import audi car to the u.s.last week, a westchest county, n.y., juri said audi was sole respons for a 1985 accid in which an audi 5000 car hit a car in a bank teller line, which hit ms. ruston car. 
 russian inch toward the checkout counter marvel at the genius of one-stop shopping."you just pick thing out yourself," say a woman in the express line with a block of goat cheese. 
 skates: alpha sport inc., st. paul, minn., agre to grant mitsubishi corp. of japan exclus right to distribut rollerblad skate in japan.th wheel of the skate are mount in a singl line to creat the sensat of ice skating. 
 five million part-tim workers, mani get the minimum wage, want full-tim jobs, the u.s. labor depart says; the figur is unusu high for this late in a busi boom.geologist do low-wag work in retail store will be first in line for job when a big firm come to town, an oklahoma employ servic says. 
 tower over the sand and scrub pine at this citi outskirt is south florida tallest landform -- broward counti last legal dump.lin of truck snake up it sides, ad more than a thousand ton of trash daily. 
 stations, of course, are sweltering.)aft a minut walk to the wall street station and a long wait in a slow line at the token booth, i saw the lexington avenu no. 4 express shut it door and pull away just as i reach the turnstile. 
 the weather in russia stinks.ther is a perfect valid reason whi we have a "negat image" of the russian as a grim-faced, bulki race huddl in long line to buy shrivel rutabagas. 
 but robert fersh bristl at the notion that soup kitchen are thrive becaus of spongers."if it was all freeloaders, then whi didn't we see these line at soup kitchen seven year ago?" ask mr. fersh, food research execut director. 
 "but everi kareem abdul jabbar in japan flock to the boat hope final to find large-s clothes," rememb one u.s. official.for month after, the u.s. embassi here got letter from japanes complain of long lines, no meat and the poor qualiti of u.s. products. 
 bluff work onli if they'r not called.within a few hour after the crash on the enterprise, a marin corp honor guard in dress blue appear on the carrier deck, follow by two aluminum coffin that slowli made their way between two long line of crew members, head bare and bowed. 
 the option is especi appealing, they said, becaus demand for organ is up but donat are down."ther are a lot of peopl that can be help that you would otherwis have wait in line," said dr. dixon kaufman, a transplant fellow at the univers of minneosta. 
 last night, the beij univers student crush forward to listen to speaker who ignor a hand of plain-cloth polic present.nearby, dozen of student crowd under the dim light of bare bulb to read a long line of wall posters, some of which were splatter with red ink to symbol the murder of mr. chai. 
 the result is congestion, harri air-traff control and frequent irat travelers.passeng endur long line for tickets, toilets, taxi and their baggage. 
 m. ali issari, a retir univers professor, park his car in front of a new-hom sale offic near los angel one recent saturday and stuck this sign behind the windshield: "the line for purchas deeridg home start from here."on week later, when sell started, the line had grown to 150 cars, and mr. issari bought the first deeridg home to a round of applaus from a mob of other hous hunters. 
 to see the effect of the anti-alcohol campaign, take a walk along stoleshnikov alley in downtown moscow.at one end of the narrow street, the line to get into a basement beer bar stretch around the block. 
 her decis swift prompt moan from hungarians, includ a sour reader who wrote to the magyar hirlap newspap asking, "doe everi wonder onli last three days?"when the mcdonald restaur open in belgrade, polic were call in to keep watch on the line of custom snake around the block and to limit the number of peopl enter the premis to avoid overcrowding. 
 the best way to reduc eros is to lower price support and target-pric that make it profit for farmer to plant on marginal, high eros low-yield ground.th conserv reserv program is simpli one more of a long line of evas to avoid deal with the fundament irrate of our agricultur programs. 
 these are the same hous democrat who demand that attorney general mees resign if the merest puff of ethic smoke blow out of the independ counsel office.but they are disinclin to look into the affair of the man who is second in the line of presidenti succession. 
 in some of the nuttiest polici ever implement in ani country, the dictat decid to retir his countri foreign debt by export everyth that wasn't nail down.food line are now so long, moscow look like a diner paradise, and tree bark is an offici recommend dietari supplement. 
 the boom is strain facilities."if you want to tee off on bethpag {in new york} on a saturday morning, you have to get on line at 3:30 a.m. or 4 a.m.," say charl robson, of the metropolitan profession golfer association. 
 a recent seminar in mexico citi began with discuss of martin luther king jr., and end with practic exercises.in one, the student form a human chain, while their teacher play the role of a counterdemonstr crash into the line. 
 some peopl actual think a long supermarket checkout line is a godsend. 
 this clear isn't the think of those seen at fashion spot like spago, the los angel restaurant, where guest are definit paler.at the stock exchange, a popular nightclub, doorman ken martin say watch the line of peopl wait to get in use to be "like look into the sun." 
 the immigr and natur servic had estim two million person would appli and that as mani as 3.9 million were eligible.in houston, line of famili wrap around the shop mall that hous the legal center. 
 damag was extens and it wasn't known how long the plant would be closed.pet beutel, analyst for elder futures, inc., new york, comment that the plant shutdown "won't creat line at the gasolin pumps, but it will tighten supplies." 
 mr. mitterrand, mr. chirac, and a former premier, raymond barre, want to crack down on illeg immigrants, but not to discrimin against legal immigrants.mr. le pen want to reserv job and govern subsidi to the french, put the immigr at the end of the line -- and send the illeg home. 
 it justifi the requir on it need for inform to fulfil it legisl power to appropri money.ther is a line of suprem court cases, date back to 1821, uphold congress impli power to demand information. 
 able-bodi mule are herd in group into a chute, where veterinarian give them a once-ov and check off their numbers, which are stuck to their forehead like chiquita stickers.som of the mule jostl in line, some tri to bolt for freedom, but most quick catch the old "hurri up and wait" drafte spirit, gaze about with big brown eye and then readili board a stock trailer. 
 daewoo should know.to demonstr solidar and irrit daewoo motor, the union there got all worker to use onli one of the plant 15 cafeterias, creat long line and stop work. 
 the group, head by manag director arthur nagl and daniel o'connell, is said by industri sourc to have line up sever institut and individu as financi backers, includ the high success leverag buy-out investor raymond chamber of wesray corp.th seven join an increas long line of invest banker special in high-profit deal make who have decid to go out on their own in pursuit of more money and influence, leav behind larg organ with high overhead and low profit margin in mani other aspect of the business, particular secur trade and sales. 
 ford may have a better idea, but general motor is no dummy.tak the situat at detroit metropolitan airport, where long ticket-count line have been the norm sinc northwest airlin takeov of republic. 
 nor doe it benefit northwest employe when they'r member of the travel public.lik everyon but the gm crowd, the northwest spokesman says, northwest employe have to stand in the usual lines. 
 mr. wilson wife was laid off from gm hamtramck plant a year ago becaus the car built there weren't sell well.h says, "the drug-sel line in my neighborhood are get longer. 
 mr. gore remark about mr. castro and mr. arafat refer to mr. jackson celebr meet with the two men.mr. gore show in connecticut was anoth in a line of dismal perform sinc his impress show in the south three week ago. 
 our walk through the dens veget of the reserv was accompani by the loud cri of multicolor macaw fli overhead.oth bright color bird perch in the tree around us, and industri "leaf-cutter" ant form move green line that wander on and off of the trail befor us. 
 taxi driver hector pina, for example, now keep a magnifi glass in his glove compart to scrutin notes.checkout line slow to a crawl as cashier not onli count their change, but read it, too. 
 each store will have one employe whose main chore will be to tidi up.and an increas in the number of checkout clerk should reduc the wait in line, which were longer than the competition. 
 one fan arriv at 4 a.m.and found 20 peopl ahead of him."sometim the line stretch 60 yards, three or four peopl wide," say white-hair joe keesler, the owner. 
 discont is strongest among the young."mani young peopl here are critic of the government," say a jean-clad teen-ag wait in a block-long line outsid cafe nord, an east berlin disco. 
 he got there befor anyon els to wait for the door to open on the first day the agenc was to begin screen applic for travel to china."bi be the first in line, i hope my famili would be convinc that i did what i could to come home sooner," he says. 
 at age 43, wait in a long ladi room line dure a break in a busi meet was a new experience; i usual had the room to myself. 
 in 1986, 40% of all account and auditor in the u.s. were women, up from virtual none 20 year ago.th wait in the fasb ladi room line cap some recent experi that convinc me that the "glass ceiling" that suppos keep women from rise abov a certain level in corpor becaus they are women is a lot of baloney. 
 her ask price is 15 rubl a kilo, which come to about $12.50 a pound at the offici rate of exchange.unlik the drab state food outlets, this market, a rubl away from red squar by cab, has no line and the salespeopl realli want to sell what they'v got. 
 it all part of a system of control access to desir commod and desir freedom of movement and action that pervad almost all area of life here in which peopl are act on their own, not as part of a collective.lin turn individu into an ad hoc collective. 
 if you should want to tri one, i recommend the stolovia upstair next to the central market.on a sunday at midday, it had no line and the staff seem quit proud to be serv a sound meal to the citi foremost food purveyors. 
 from aiglemont, the aga khan estat near chantilly, he direct the 150 peopl who administ $130 million a year in grants, who design school to be built by villag and who give award for the best in islam architecture.to world leaders, the aga khan is a figur worthi of receiv line and state dinners. 
 agent often reviv passeng who are wedg behind fake paneling, stack like cordwood into van or pile into semitrail that drip urin and sweat from the overcrowding."it make you sick to see littl kid stuck in the trunk or the women who you know get rape or beaten," say agent arthur lamberson, a lanki 15-year veteran, as he monitor an endless line of vehicles. 
 shopper must bag their groceri in most supermarkets, a requir that doesn't dent the high food prices.in return, you have to wait as long as 40 minut in long checkout lines. 
 fanni fouri is a white south african, which make him one of this countri more privileg citizens.so whi is he wait in line at a relief center for a handout of corn meal and can sardines? 
 "so what are you go to get with jess jackson?you'l have longer welfar lines, and the ladi in front of you in the supermarket line is go to have veal and shrimp and steaks, and i got chop meat, and she got food stamps, and i got to count my dollars." 
 he isn't like to get it.in fact, the counsel, gerald ducharme, worri that the european communiti big overhaul of merger matters, part of the ec campaign to remov intern trade barrier by 1992, will do littl more than lengthen the long line of bureaucrat ford alreadi must negoti with. 
 we meet host roy scheider in the familiar environ of red square, but immedi we are carri away between the wintri bank of the volga, over the crystallin water of lake baikal, through the sunlit market of iblisi, abov the misti peak of the caucasus, and across the golden grassland of the ukraine.if our mental pictur of the u.s.s.r. previous has consist of gray, grim folk wait in line to buy a few shrivel vegetables, we'll be surpris by the stun cinematographi of michael reagan. 
 but what is a travelogue, if not an effort to display onli that which is attractive?"portrait" show one line of consumers, but quick identifi them as new year celebr in a "shop frenzy" of gift-buying, because, as mr. scheider intones, "the russian love their children." 
 in respons to a 0.6% cut in it budget, the post offic has cut back window hour by 10% and end sunday mail collections.and next month the 40 million or 50 million american who mail their tax return around april 15 will face long line at their local post offic as the price of a first-class stamp goe up to 25 cents. 
 at the same time, distribut mistak often left the shelv empti of good that shopper did want.and even when shopper found what they wanted, some gave up and went elsewher becaus cost-cut staff reduct meant intermin wait in checkout lines. 
 with the heavi competit for systems, even some of the more aggress bidder are be price out of some markets."w just bid $2,000 per subscrib for some rather ordinari system and we were sixth in line," say jeffrey a. marcus, chairman of denver-bas western tele-commun inc. 
 dure the earli 1980s, investor were obsess with the week money statistics.long line form in the lobbi of the feder reserv bank of new york each week, and dozen of fed-watch churn out lengthi treatis on what each squiggl in m1 might mean. 
 miami beach millionair victor posner began work friday at camillus house, an emerg shelter for the homeless here, admit approxim 800 hungri peopl to it cafeteria-styl food line. 
 mr. mulheren spent thursday night in jail.ear friday afternoon, the arbitrag was led into a counti courtroom, his left wrist shackl to a line of a dozen other prisoners. 
 univers nation bank in palo alto, calif., has tellers, but it serv coffe in real china and offer after-hour servic by appointment.robert tennyson, a travel-ag operator, took his busi to univers nation about a year ago, after crocker nation bank was acquir by well fargo & co. follow the merger of the big banks, servic at the local branch was "a nightmare," accord to mr. tennyson: teller line of 15 to 30 minut "were not uncommon"; the bank "lost one of our check for six weeks," and it "treat us like we were nonexistent." 
 "some fund group were beg peopl to come in earli last year," say john foppiano, a tax partner at price waterhous & co."but we won't be see ani line at mutual-fund sale offic this april 15." 
 at addenbrooke's, the hospit where the pay soviet journalist got treatment, about two-third of case classifi "urgent" have wait more than a month, and some 40% of those hope for "non-urgent" procedur have been wait for more than a year.citizen with privat insur or foreign who pay like mr. loui can jump the line at public hospitals. 
 in big-tim corpor bankruptci storms, lowli sharehold are start to steal some thunder.traditionally, sharehold have been the last in line. 
 it was steep by american standards, mayb $20 per person, but unimagin extravag for a famili earn a normal wage in rubles.a the american wife of a resid u.s. correspond said in the passport line at moscow sheremetyevo airport: "this is a great place for lose weight." 
 what doe that candid do?pat robertson, say republican charl west, 62, himself a minister, "is go to say, let us pray, and when they kneel, he go to the front of the line." 
 slight better financ and more ambiti entrepreneur have launch cottag industri to turn out can fruits, ketchup, shoe and handicrafts.even more intrepid are govern worker who spend hour away from their desk endur long, snail line in order to buy such care ration item as soap, shampoo, diaper and clothing. 
 the feder communic commiss reinstat it program to help minor entrepreneurs, but the first group in line for the aid is the famili of stock manipul ivan boesky. 
 snowflak swirl and the wind creep in through crack in a wall of the shack where santiago medrano lives.mr. medrano fold his arm and shiver as he wait in line for the even meal of corn tortilla and shred beef. 
 an ambul trail the candid limousine.polic car form the vanguard and rear guard; other polic car block off all the crossroad to make sure an errant john deer doesn't break the line. 
 the other day, the press van becam separ from it five companion vehicl as the motorcad pull away from the blackhawk hotel here in davenport to start a long campaign day.a coca-cola truck crash the line. 
 "but i'm the onli republican candid who go to vote for that treati in the senate."mr. bush campaign as a man in logic line to the white house. 
 teacher say they can't recal a singl week in the past four year when they didn't go on strike.in the courtyard, under a corrug metal roof, a score of mother wait in line for their children report cards. 
 while the campaign was mr. gibbon idea, however, he won't be pay for it: the donat will come out of the chain nation advertis fund, which is financ by the franchisees.and by base donat on bk doubles, a new double-hamburg line the fast-food chain is tri to push, burger king work a sale pitch into it public-servic message. 
 the day was satur with the weight of it own impend history.long line of peopl wait to buy special souvenir world seri postcard with offici postmarks. 
 "shortage" and "crisis" becam buzz words, although neither realli applied.th spot disloc that show up were larg the result of confus (much of it in washington), though that was cold comfort for driver wait in mile-long line at the gas pumps. 
 board of education, was such an issue.in our time abort has becom another, best left to a line of suprem court decis rather than to the chao of 50 state legislatures. 
 yet in mr. laband rehash of free-market logic, human greed and self-interest are the onli permiss psycholog reactions.allow uncontrol price for necess would inde shorten the line at stores, as he contends. 
 but not becaus resourc are go to their most effici use, leav scarc good "alloc to those buyer who place the highest valu on them."rather, line would diminish becaus at higher price mani victim could not afford necess such as food and medic supplies. 
 under the contract hydro-quebec was to suppli 400 megawatt of power to central main power start in 1992, 600 megawatt start in 1995 and 900 megawatt start in 2000.hydro-quebec said main regul refus to approv the contract mean central main power has lost it place in line. 
 more important, however, is the recent exodus of german from the "better half" to the west.ther is a long line of east german wait to get out. 
 over the year mani have even risk their live to leave.i have never been abl to find a line of peopl wait to enter. 
 although agricultur depart offici thought they couldn't prove richco was such an alter ego, accord to mr. glickman, they still conclud that they had legal ground for suspend richco becaus the compani is under mr. rich control.in investig richco capitalization, ad gregori frazier, a glickman aide, "they trace the line of ownership back through marc rich & co. to rich himself." 
 in ani case, the ibm announcement, come on top of hewlett-packard recent introduction, should acceler the move to laser printers, which are faster and quieter and print neater than dot-matrix printers, but which have been too expens for some tastes.that certain mean more conveni for mani users, who now may have to walk across the offic to wait in line to print a letter on a laser printer. 
 this mean that the current domest deficit must be financ with bonds, which of cours becom readili market in moscow, leningrad, new york and london if the bond carri the promis to pay princip and interest in gold.indeed, i would expect the soviet union could step to the front of the line in seek credit at the lowest possibl interest rate. 
 the govern in east berlin agre to allow about 10,000 of it citizen at the west german embassi in pragu to emigr but ban unrestrict travel to czechoslovakia, which has emerg as the main gateway to the west.th clampdown on travel came after hundr of east german storm through polic line to get insid west germani embassi compound in an attempt to follow near 40,000 other who have fled. 
 but the agreement gave znaniy the right to omit the final chapter, which deal with religi upbring of children in the family, accord to the russian translator, renata ravich.judg by the line at the book fair, soviet publish could make a fortun if they onli had the nerv to push religi glasnost a littl further. 
 bankamerica has been lead the pack, hand out free check account and push credit line with no up-front charges.it seattle-bas seafirst corp. unit is offer five buck to ani custom who has to wait in line more than five minut (it paid out about $2,000 so far). 
 for one thing, the place is such a hit that ms. brigg husband, who use to hold the titl of most frequent guest (probabl just check to see what leftov he'd be eat that night), rare get to eat at his favorit restaur anymore."h has to get in line like everyon else," said his wife, with a helpless shrug. 
 mr. virnich said it was his understand that his predecessor intend to make an offer to purchas eac, which for more than a month has been seek a buyer.whil he reiter today that eac is proceed with that effort, mr. virnich said, "we'v got a lot of interest parties, ad that mr. fritzsch is "go to be in the same line with everyon else." 
 mr. giblen is the first to conced that smith's, which oper 94 store in eight western states, is well run and a nice place to shop.it large, modern store combin groceri and drug are full of wide aisl and beam employees, who seem make it their goal for custom to breez through checkout lines. 
 there were immedi ego and technic problem to deal with."it was like tri to shepherd a group of wild anim into a straight line," said one of the participants, who ask not to be named. 
 just think of it.airlin hold you captiv for hour -- in madden ticket counter lines, in smoke-fil airports, and in plane that seem perman park on runways. 
 "microwav have chang our percept of time in the 80s much as telephon chang them at the turn of the century," say mona doyle, presid of consum network inc., a consum research firm in philadelphia."it has made even fast-food restaur not seem fast becaus at home you don't have to wait on line." 
 on the way to work one morning, he stop at the build to tell mr. arkhipov: "don't forget the drain today."back in his office, the line of peopl wait to see him has dwindled, so mr. goncharov stop in to see the mayor, yuri khivrich. 
 how about lower the stress level of america veri stressed-out shoppers.it emerg that one of their top pet peev is wait in long line while other regist or window stay closed. 
 he hastili kiss the tarmac at windhoek airport and then gave his mother a quick hug.h proceed brisk through a recept line of parti offici and old friends, and he bare had time to tell the news media "i am happi to be back home" befor one of his bodyguard tug his elbow and said "comrade, let move." 
 he proceed brisk through a recept line of parti offici and old friends, and he bare had time to tell the news media "i am happi to be back home" befor one of his bodyguard tug his elbow and said "comrade, let move."then he was gone, disappear in an offici motorcad that roll past a mile-long line of support outsid the airport. 
 naturally, when the cub won the pennant in 1932, we want to see a world seri game," he goe on."th first one in chicago was on a saturday, and chester and i got to the ballpark friday night to get in line for tickets. 
 in this case, the govern said, the aim was to claim unlaw tax losses.defens lawyer argu in their 43-page memorandum that there was a long line of case allow tax loss in case that were almost the same as the one against the princeton/newport defendants. 
 suddenly, a blue truck drive up and deliv some boxes.a they are unload at a desk near the cashier, a line quick form around the desk, even though peopl don't know what the box contain. 
 consid mr. adorno, the young new yorker who paid $3.30 to cash his paycheck.mr. adorno shrug his shoulder when ask whi he doesn't use a bank instead and says, "the line at the bank are longer." 
 four year ago, antonio mamani, a truck driver for a state mine company, carri his pocket money in a burlap bag becaus the devalu peso were too bulki to fit in his trousers.th price of a movi ticket often rose while he wait in line to buy it. 
 with less competit and less of a chanc for newcom to get into the game, these u.s. carrier will have a more stabl and profit financi environ than they'v had in the past, say georg james, presid of airlin econom inc., a washington consult firm.moreover, he says, major u.s. air carrier also have such asset as undervalu real estate, valuabl land slots, airport gates, salabl aircraft and even posit in line to take deliveri of new planes. 
 warsaw, saturday, aug. 19: the first sign of the intens western interest in this countri show up outsid my plane window as we touch down here: a white boe jet mark "unit state of america" park among the aeroflot plane on the tarmac.insid the terminal, the first of mani long line is at the currenc exchange. 
 some 60 tire pole queue in the lobbi of super sam, a big food market.they haven't reach food line yet; this is a line for shop carts. 
 there is no sugar.to pay for their purchases, shopper stand in yet anoth line. 
 he seek the hous investig "to ensur that the public record is clear."mr. frank troubl are simpli the latest in a long line of ethic peccadillo -- financi and sexual, heterosexu and homosexu -- that have left politician and their advis search for guidelines. 
 fortunately, 80% of polish agricultur is alreadi privat owned, though farm are usual onli three to six acres.if the state choke off it ruinous 15%-a-week hyper-inflation, sold or gave away larger tract of land to privat farmer and abolish price-fix market boards, poland food line could start to melt away. 
 congressmen sit in rayburn hous offic build 2358 -- the appropri subcommitte on transport -- could provid the answer.thi particular day, a long line of lobbyist and observ wait in the hall outsid the committe room to no avail: the panel has vote to close it meet to the public, and now is in the process of negoti which project get fund and which one don't. 
 on a given summer day, some 150,000 peopl pass through the turnstil of disney parks, estim tom powell, the editor of amus busi magazine.they spend at least $10 each on food and souvenirs, he says, and they are happy, or at least willing, to stand in hour-long lines. 
 "as junk-bond issuer can't make their interest payments, there will be a reckoning," he said.elsewher downtown, big line form for ticket to the illinoi lotteri saturday lotto drawing. 
 as they stood in the charl schwab offic late yesterday, the investors, mani of them elderly, stay near the machines.they took turn punch in their stocks, then head to the back of the line. 
 just two week ago the govern freed food price as part of it reform program, do away with the meat-rat system that been around sinc the time of martial law.th result has been a run on meat that mean the line and discont are even greater than before. 
 in june, the naderit consum group buyer up made a media splash by predict tight suppli would send gasolin price soar by 10 cent a gallon this summer, and could lead to 1970s-style gas lines.pump price instead have drop seven cent a gallon sinc june, and even remot resort area haven't seen ani lines. 
 at the same time, saratoga is up to date enough to make wander new yorker feel at home.sign in front of sever of the mans proclaim them to have been condo-ized, the track offer pick six and trifecta wager along with other new-fangl bet gimmicks, and line everywher are manhattan-long. 
 compani such as gypsum market usg, hotel oper holiday and publish harcourt brace jovanovich have fend off raider by borrow to pay big dividends.eith way, the stub stand behind a long line of bondhold if a compani is dissolved; onli after debt is satisfi can stubhold stake a claim to asset or earnings. 
 that produc a return of $2.40 on a $2 win bet and made such ticket as valuabl as souvenir as in bill and coins.payout-window lines, however, indic that most winner were cash theirs. 
 may speed up customsth u.s. custom servic think it can shorten the line for clear custom -- at least for businesses. 
 as tea is served, a young girl tell of be order out of her famili home in bulgaria and be brought to the polic station.ther she wait in line for more than eight hour for a passport -- onli to be sent home without one. 
 at london gatwick airport, delay are so bad the airport has put up two marque with 1,000 extra seats, and brought in clown to entertain children.in honolulu, travel come from asia have been stuck in two-hour line at custom and immigration. 
 by contrast, travel to asia encount most of their problem on the ground.at tokyo narita airport, industri offici say, it can take an hour and a half to park and get through the airport custom and immigr lines; they cite an expect 16% increas in the traffic this summer. 
 earli next year, work is to begin on a three-year project to add 33 more gates.but the next major expansion, which is to overhaul the departur hall and replac the two oldest line of gates, isn't schedul to occur until 1998. 
 but lawmak argu that drop direct loan wouldn't save much money and that disadvantag entrepreneur would have a hard time compet for the guarante loans."peopl are wait in line for those loans. 
 it at the orpheum, where, whatev els you may say about the proceedings, there at least no wait for the ladi room dure intermission.th onli line is outsid the men -- mr. busch tri and true fans, who'v been support this master of camp farc sinc the beginning. 
 the burbank, calif.-bas entertain concern also said it tentat has plan for a new "sea-ori theme park" around the queen mari ship and spruce goos airplan attract in long beach, calif., which the compani obtain through it acquisit of wrather corp. last year.th expans of the $500 million disney-mgm studio attract was disclos by disney chairman and chief execut officer, michael d. eisner, when he respond to an articl in the orlando sentinel about crowd condit and long line at the park. 
 q: what are you most proud of have done as enforc chief?a: it would have to be the line of case -- levine, boesky, drexel, et al. 
 as i look back and i think of major case that have been brought in the past, there the whitney case, against the presid of the stock exchang for manipulation, a veri import case. {in that case, former new york stock exchang presid richard whitney plead guilti to two count of grand larceni in 1938, lead to high public hear on what william o. douglas, then the sec chief, call "the whole anatomi of wall street chicaneri and corruption."}i think this line of case will be rememb as equal import for their time. 
 in meet with faa and transport depart officials, they said that inspect each electron item would turn airport secur checkpoint into giant bottlenecks.som passeng caught in long line would miss their flights. 
 meanwhile, merchant in woodstock, n.y., say busi is slow."eith they'r all wait for august or they envis mud and long line of traffic," say jean gaed of the local chamber of commerce, ad that no special event is planned. 
 these protein bind tight to specif molecules, offer the prospect of such applic as the diagnosi and treatment of cancer and the separ and purif of materials.in addition, mr. frashier will push for develop of a line of protein-bas adhes and coat products. 
 william gates, founder and chairman of microsoft corp., becam the person comput industri first billion-dollar man yesterday.th 31-year-old harvard univers dropout hold 11,018,955 shares, or about a 42% stake in microsoft, which supplies, among other things, the intern program that control the basic function of intern busi machin inc. pc line of person comput and compat machines. 
 term weren't disclosed, but industri sourc said the price was about $2.5 million.th sale includ the right to germain monteil in north and south america and in the far east, as well as the worldwid right to the dian von furstenberg cosmet and fragranc line and u.s. distribut right to lancast beauti products. 
 amc execut have said they are frustrat about the time of the bid, contend amc was just about to turn the corner after a string of troubl years.th compani jeep sale are strong and amc is just now introduc line of larger renault car that could final give it a posit in a broader segment of the auto market -- but onli if current skeptic buyer start return to amc showrooms. 
 separately, jame e. edwards, an at&t senior vice presid who preced mr. cassoni as head of the comput division, said he is leav the company, effect monday.accord to manag in the computer, or data systems, division, at&t will announc new product that includ an addit to it 3b minicomput line, softwar product to connect it machin to those of intern busi machin corp., a laser printer, the latest version of the unix v oper system softwar and some local area network products. 
 sever data system execut have quit recently.john walsh, a vice presid in charg of the 3b minicomput line, surpris colleagu in januari when he left to join a small west coast videoconferenc concern. 
 face with the innov competit and an overal flat market sinc 1984, nelson, the biggest u.s. religi publisher, lost market share and now is tri to recov ground.it "precious moment bible," illustr with a popular line of cherub children characters, has sold more than a million copi in about a year. 
 rjr nabisco inc. said it expect to retain at least 95% ownership of it tobacco busi if it decid to spin off the line in a master limit partnership. 
 ltv has had $4.69 billion in loss over the past five years, most from it beleagu steel unit, the nation second largest.ltv plan to reorgan around it aerospac and defens unit, it onli profit line, which account for almost two-third of ltv 1986 oper profit of $171.9 million. 
 not accord to jame uffelman, a 43-year-old comput specialist with a theori about corpor succession.mr. uffelman establish his theori while develop a line of birthday card that list birth date of famous people. 
 howel book hous inc. of new york has been success publish book about dog for 26 years.it mainstay is a line of 60 books, each devot to a differ breed. 
 "with a broad line of product direct at kids, children and teen-agers, it will get us away from a lot of the volatil in this (toy) business."world of wonder teddi ruxpin animated-bear line of toy was the industri largest seller in 1985 and it lazer tag game was no. 1 last year, the execut said. 
 mr. stein estim that dure the compani next fiscal year, it toy busi will account for 75% to 80% of sales, school accessori 5% to 10% and consum electron 10% to 20%.among the new product in the school-accessori segment is a line call class act. 
 in a telegram to 5,500 bank that issu visa cards, charl t. russell, visa usa president, warned, "this move is an attempt by american express to further it presenc in the retail bank market by acquir addit relationship(s) with your better customers."h suggest that banker call jame d. robinson iii, chairman of american express, to "voic your displeasur over his decis to enter one of your most profit line of service." 
 but the move may also reflect an effort to subcontract work to outsid vendor as part of a broader strategi design in part to trim costs.th no. 1 auto maker in recent month has been shed some small oper and has join in joint ventur to make and market such product as it heavi truck line. 
 gynex inc. said two generic oral contracept develop by gynex laboratori inc. are be recal by the distributor, g.d. searl & co., a unit of monsanto co., st. louis.gynex inc., which develop gynecolog and reproduct pharmaceut products, said the recal is be conduct as a prevent measur becaus a limit number of packag of the gynex line of contracept may be miss tablet or contain some that are out of sequence. 
 chrysler corp. also is offer financ incent and rebat that don't have an expir date.a ford analyst said anoth reason for offer the incent on taurus and sabl is to keep sale balanc across car lines. 
 bayli corp. said it acquir a 55% stake in chute corp., which design and market the "code bleu" line of denim sportswear. 
 bayly, which manufactur jean and leisur wear, said it purchas the share from two outsid investor for an undisclos cash payment at close and an addit undisclos sum to be paid over a three-year period.bayli has had a licens agreement with close held, seattle-bas chute for the "code bleu" line sinc june 1984. 
 the fiber segment, which earn $542 million last year, has been experienc annual product gain of 7%.respons has been strong to a new line of stain-resist carpet materi and kevlar, a steel-lik fiber use in such item as clothing, bulletproof vest and helmets. 
 intern busi machin corp. and the person comput industri are approach an import crossroads.next month, the comput giant is wide expect to unveil a new line of pcs that will diverg from the industri standard. 
 the new product will present a pain choic for other comput makers, softwar compani and customers, who will have to decid whether to stick with the exist standard, which was itself develop by ibm, or to follow big blue into new territory.th new line will be ibm shot at reassert it leadership in the person comput market. 
 ibm is expect to unveil a much differ line of pcs next month in a riski bid to reclaim market share. 
 this year was to have been the watersh in that effort, in amc view.amc dealer final will get a wider line of car to sell, and the compani just began product of chrysler m-bodi car on a contract basi at amc kenosha, wis., plant. 
 ross, which plan to close 25 of it 146 stores, said it expect to report a net loss of about $34 million for the fourth quarter and a net loss for fiscal 1987 of about $42 million.th loss result in larg part from a fourth-quart pre-tax charg of about $40 million to cover the store close and the discontinu of some poor perform merchandis lines. 
 one major hurdl remained, accord to mr. bidwell, who spent 27 year at ford and was hertz corp. presid and chief oper offic befor join chrysler in 1983.chrysler and renault couldn't agre on a valu for the stake in amc, particular with amc just about to start sell new line of renault cars. 
 sear becam the top retail by cater to young famili with a phalanx of new suburban store and sturdy, no-nonsens merchandise.th rang of accept tast in the late 1950s was so narrow, in fact, that hart schaffner & marx prosper in men tailor cloth despit offer onli three style of suit in it best lines. 
 coca-cola has gone from a singl product to what it maker now call an "umbrella brand," with permut that includ coca-cola classic and diet cherri coke, each aim at a differ type of consumer.hartmarx has expand the three basic suit style in it hart schaffner & marx line to 15. 
 "there noth (realli good that's) american," say alex gonzalez, an assist manager, after list the virtu of an expens german brand.of the store best american line, he say sadly, "the steel is good, but there a problem with the handle. 
 two events, however, would help boost the struggl company.in 1970, amc bought it jeep line from kaiser industri -- a busi that boomed. 
 s&p said chrysler was "receiv a busi with question prospects."analyst said the most valuabl part of the acquisit is amc jeep line, which serv the armi dure world war ii and which the compani acquir in 1970. 
 onc the acquisit is completed, the real work would begin.whil chrysler would get at least two acknowledg jewel in the transact -- the popular and profit jeep line of util vehicles, and a new $675 million state-of-the-art assembl plant in bramalea, ontario -- it also would have to contend with some problems. 
 reebok said the acquisit would posit it for further growth in the expand athlet and casual-sho market.in addit to it line of athlet footwear -- from aerob shoe to volleybal shoe -- avia make walk shoes, casual footwear and hike boots. 
 but plenti of l.a. bud restaurateur are show less restraint.don taco, home of the pastrami rice bowl, now featur a full line of chines burritos, while one of the don princip rivals, the oki dog, offer the oki dog, a chili-d and tortilla-wrap frankfurter. 
 "but smaller good are strong."new york-bas penney said apparel and soft home furnish were it fastest-grow line last month and contribut to a 5.5% rise in februari sale for store open more than one year. 
 the company, which had said it would instal driver-sid air bag on oldsmobil delta 88 model as option equip in the 1988-model year, said it would instal the safeti devic on addit model in futur years.th no. 1 auto maker said an estim 500,000 air bag will be instal dure 1990 on select car lines. 
 tonka said the propos acquisit is part of it strategi to expand it base of toy that don't swing wild with fads.tonka said ertl will doubl tonka revenu from it most stabl toy line, tonka trucks. 
 mr. inston said the compani has an order backlog valu at "about $16.6 million, up from $12.1 million at this time last year."initi respons has been strong for a new line of uninterrupt power suppli design for sophist electron equipment, he said. 
 he ad that custom reaction to the compani i.o.u. brand of sportswear, introduc in the fall of 1985 and promot heavili last year, also was "excellent" in the second half.th line, aim at young men and women, produc higher profit margin than other name-brand clothes, he said. 
 the line, aim at young men and women, produc higher profit margin than other name-brand clothes, he said.mr. sullivan also said the line illustr a chang over the past year in the compani merchandis strategy. 
 the company, which boost the number of store to 388 from 334 in the fiscal year just ended, said it expect to open anoth 40 to 50 in the current year.bi fall, it also hope to expand it i.o.u. line to repres between 25% and 30% of the merchandis sold in the two divis that carri it. 
 the younger mr. noland, 43 year old, is current a vice presid and manag of merchandis for plumb and heat products.thos line last year account for 62% of the wholesal distributor $426.5 million of sales. 
 and it seem to be succeeding.in miss kamali case, the disrupt of her homework oper prompt her to suspend her wholesal oper and cancel her spring line of clothes. 
 mr. wolfer said the compani 10 store that sell children cloth exclus have remain profitable, but the 25 store that sell both women and children cloth have "perform poorly."h ad that the compani has probabl been attempt to offer too wide a choic of size and styles, and plan to elimin petit and larg size from it women line. 
 term weren't disclosed.th toy maker said that under the agreement, it gain the australian and new zealand market right to sever toy line joint develop by tonka and bandai and alreadi sold in the u.s. 
 digit equip corp. introduc three midrang comput in it vax line, indic that the compani is move to limit possibl inroad by intern busi machin corp. 
 american motor drop plan to build a new line of jeep at it kenosha, wis., plant, cite an impass with the uaw union. 
 american motor corp., cite an impass with the unit auto worker union, said it decid against build a new line of jeep vehicl at the compani kenosha, wis., plant and that the vehicl will be made at anoth site. 
 fruit of the loom, which was farley apparel inc. until be renam last month, will offer today 27 million common share at $9 apiece.th renam offer doesn't includ the farley line of acm and dingo boots.origin part of the offering, the line will remain part of mr. farley huge privat held conglomerate. 
 origin part of the offering, the line will remain part of mr. farley huge privat held conglomerate.th boot line contribut less than 5% of pretax profit of the farley apparel operations. 
 digit equip unveil three midrang comput in it vax line, indic the compani is move to limit possibl inroad by ibm. 
 he was known for a reserv person style but for incis strateg thinking.in his tenure, rjr divest non-consum busi like ship and oil and increas branch out from tobacco into food and soft-drink lines. 
 the unit auto worker said it will resum bargain with american motor corp. over contract concess at the auto maker kenosha, wis., plant.th talk broke off last friday and amc had said that, becaus of the impasse, it decid against build a new line of jeep vehicl at the plant. 
 wang laboratori inc. introduc a replac for it 2200 seri of small busi comput that will continu the 15-year-old line. 
 the wang cs comput will run the same softwar as the 70,000 wang 2200 seri comput alreadi installed.som wang user had worri that the compani might stop make the line as it concentr on sell offic autom product to larg and medium-s organizations. 
 under the agreement, lyphom said it will sell novopharm oral-pharmaceut drug in the u.s. and close held novopharm will sell lyphom injectable-pharmaceut drug in canada.lyphom said the agreement put it into the hospit and retail oral-pharmaceut market, and will strengthen it posit in the canadian hospit market through it line of inject products. 
 after more than a decad of domin the market for the fastest and most power computers, cray research inc. of minneapoli now face a new domest challenger: eta system inc.in late december, eta, 89% own by control data corp., ship it first supercomputer, boast that it new line would run faster than the fastest cray computer. 
 todd said it appoint brown brother harriman & co. to investig alternatives, includ the sale of assets, "a combin of todd with anoth firm," and the renegoti or refinanc of portion of the compani debt.th compani also said the loss of the contract to build a new line of ddg-51 guid missil destroy may have "a materi advers effect" on the company. 
 moog inc. said it agre in principl to sell it carleton line of precis pneumat compon for $30 million to fr group plc of britain. 
 mr. gibbon couldn't be reach for comment.th new line is draw less-than-radi review in some quarters. 
 bargain hunter will face some dilemmas, however, and not all price are falling.som of the deepest cut are for older ibm clones, but some of those machin won't be power enough to run the new industry-standard softwar be plan for ibm new person service/2 line. 
 j. kendrick nobl jr., analyst with painewebb inc., note that map compani have becom more aggress in market their product as premium sinc the mid-1970s, when oil companies, one of the industri largest clients, stop give away road map atlas to attract customers.to enhanc it qualiti image, hammond also revamp it well-known trade line of world atlases, replac the old cloth cover book with a leather bound, gilded, thumb-index edition. 
 quaker oat co., in a move to reduc it swollen debt load, agre to sell sever recent acquir food line to kraft inc. for $235 million. 
 quaker oat co., in a move to reduc it swollen debt load, agre to sell sever recent acquir food line to kraft inc. for $235 million.th busi plan for sale, includ such line as seven sea salad dress and chiffon margarine, were all acquir last septemb when quaker paid $805 million for anderson, clayton & co., houston. 
 as previous reported, quaker want to sell everyth it acquir in that transact except the gain pet food unit.for glenview, ill.-bas kraft, the new line will boost it market share on sever supermarket shelv it alreadi dominates. 
 in 1986, quaker earn $88.1 million, includ $58 million from discontinu operations, on sale of $1.08 billion.th acquisit will allow kraft to use it exist sale forc and distributor for the new lines; it may also allow certain plant consolidations. 
 analyst estim that the non-food busi could fetch $200 million, thus further reduc quaker debt and posit it to pursu it state strategi of more acquisitions.mr. smithburg has said he is target groceri product with lead market share and toy line that would fit into quaker fisher-pric toy and children furnish unit. 
 moreover, as appl move it product line into the more expens and sophist market for engin workstations, profession publish system and serious busi manag applications, the compani retail dealer network will have to find way of sell comput system that are better suit to those more sophist markets."what was the top of our line of busi comput last week is now the bottom of our line," said john sculley, appl chairman and chief execut officer. 
 a week ago, ross said it expect to report a net loss of about $42 million for the fiscal year end feb. 1.the expect loss results, in larg part, from a fourth-period pre-tax charg of about $40 million to cover the close of 25 store and discontinu of some poor perform merchandis lines. 
 she is a spokeswoman for spring air mattresses, has done ad for mcdonald's, buf-puf and nestle's, and just sign a contract with licens corp. of america."right now we'r look at a dress line," say mr. manzella, who claim that other offer have come in from polaroid, kodak, saran wrap, chemic bank and hostess twinkies. 
 "we'r expect his addit to be veri posit in devis new strategies."found in 1964, the compani bought matchbox wheel toys, a 33-year-old line, in 1982. 
 univers matchbox has a need for my talent perhap more than mattel doe now."mr. forcelledo expect mr. kalinsk experi to move the compani into more toy for girls, from it current focus on die-cast toy and boy lines. 
 if the world-market price fall below that level (it is now seven cents), quota for import sugar are reduc until domest price reach 18 cent a pound.thi tactic mean there is no line item in the budget label "sugar giveaway," but that the averag famili of four must spend an extra $100 a year in higher price for such stapl as sugar, peanut butter, ketchup, salad dress and cereal. 
 price rang from $1,954 for a person comput base on intel 80286 microprocessor to $8,653 for one base on the 386 chip.bi announc the line onli two month after intern busi machin corp. unveil it own new famili of person computers, ncr is attempt to sway potenti ibm corpor custom to buy ncr machines, three of which compet direct with the ibm computers. 
 moreover, the high-perform oper system, call os/2, that can tap the full power of the new machin won't be avail until at least 1988.vernon yates, a vice presid of ncr and general manag of the person comput division, acknowledg that the compani is make the earli announc of the line in respons to ibm new machines. 
 he said the compani weaken financi condit would make it imposs for the concern to bear certain start-up and other cost without help from the navy.th contract is to build a new line of the navi ddg-51 class destroyer. 
 ncr corp., as expected, unveil here a line of person computers, includ one base on intel corp. power 80386 microprocessor. 
 and at american can in the earli 1980s, mr. tsai enthusiasm for financi servic found a recept audience.in particular, william woodside, then chairman of american can, embrac mr. tsai idea for push into insurance, mutual fund and other financi areas, while shed the compani traditional, slow-growth manufactur lines. 
 greyhound corp., look skyward for busi to replac the bus line it recent sold, agre to acquir carson piri scott & co. in-flight cater and airport-termin concess oper for $326 million.announc of the propos purchas of the dobb hous airport restaur and other food-servic line of chicago-bas carson piri came as specul increas that minneapoli investor irwin jacob was acquir greyhound shares. 
 "we'r go to sit and digest this one, and we'll look at it mayb a year from now," he said.th compani also remain interest in acquisit of consumer-product oper that would fit with it purex and dial line -- "anyth that not perish and can sit on a groceri shelf," he said. 
 quaker oat agre to sell sever recent acquir food line to kraft for $235 million. 
 zayr corp., whose earn and stock valu have been held down by it discount store operations, plan to sell a portion of it specialti store to the public.analyst said the move will rais cash for the framingham, mass.-bas retail and boost it stock valu by highlight the success of it off-pric specialti retail lines. 
 he usual doe what he set out to do," say stephen carnes, an analyst at piper jaffray & hopwood inc.on wednesday, beatric file with the secur and exchang commiss for an initi public offer of it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 but he said he is "concerned" that the food busi earnings, which lag the industri lead performers, could cool investor reaction to such a larg offering.beatric domest lines, includ hunt tomato product and wesson cook oils, had pre-tax profit of $448 million on sale of $4.82 billion in the fiscal year end feb. 28. 
 an industri sourc close to beatric say sever compani have express interest in the food businesses.that sourc said that such a sale, if it occurs, would follow the e-ii offer and the like disposit of the intern food lines. 
 a sourc close to burlington said that half of burlington divis have been break even or post loss and would be ripe candid for divestiture, while "the other half were cash cows."about 55% of burlington fiscal 1986 sale of $2.78 billion were in apparel fabrics, some line of which have been hit hard by import competition. 
 "guy run plant shouldn't be handicap against guy sell bonds," he said.in addition, mr. peltz said he and mr. may have been do more of the type of acquisit and corpor financ work that invest banker do than the work of line industri managers. 
 mr. jacob recent open a restaur overlook a boat dealership he own on the shore of lake minnetonka here.t at the snazzi new york-styl deli and grill, call sasha's, are care arranged: no matter which way custom turn, their gaze fall upon the dealership line of sleek wellcraft powerboats. 
 but the once-ubiquit preppi emblem is slowli reappear in store that shun the sportswear brand after sale plummet in 1984 and they got stuck with bloat inventories."a lot of exclus depart store drop most of the izod line when it becam overexpos and the qualiti slipped," say marvin lord, presid of the youthwear divis at crystal brand inc., the market of izod lacost apparel. 
 crystal brand recent consum research found most favor reaction to the alligator, but the compani has decid not to plaster it on everyth in sight.it especi scarc in the women line where fashion is far more import than a logo. 
 instead of the tradit sewn-on patch, it is screen-print and embroid on some shirts.in the boy line, a new sweater is emblazon with a fanci crest show the allig on a shield with french and american flags. 
 as reported, mattel said sale from oversea operations, under mr. amerman control, rose 47% in 1986.mr. kalinsk had head mattel domest operations, which the compani said suffer in 1986 becaus of lower demand for it master of the univers line of toys. 
 digit equip corp. and cray research inc., two lead maker of comput for scientist and researchers, are develop method of speed communic between their comput lines. 
 indeed, while cray spokesman wouldn't say whether such discuss are under way, he note that between 40% and 50% of cray supercomput are connect with intern busi machin corp. computers, "so it make an aw lot of sens for us to do everyth we can to improv the perform of that connection."between 10% and 20% of cray machin world-wid are link with digit vax line, cray spokesman estimated, with the rest receiv data from comput made by minneapolis-bas control data corp. 
 general motor corp., struggl with a lacklust car line and bloat costs, tap a new presid who has a proven record of cost cut and decad of experi build automobiles. 
 gm new presid is robert c. stempel, a 53-year-old with broad experi and a record of cost-cutting.stempel selection, end a tens contest among top officers, come as the auto maker struggl with a lacklust car line and bloat costs. 
 general motor corp. saturn corp. subsidiari is expect tomorrow to announc detail of a sale network compos of far fewer dealer than the auto maker other car lines. 
 general motor corp. saturn corp. subsidiari is expect tomorrow to announc detail of a sale network compos of far fewer dealer than the auto maker other car lines.a gm sourc said saturn initi expect to appoint onli about 100 dealer in major u.s. markets, compar with sever thousand dealer at each of gm five other car lines. 
 in 1986, the maker of elastom product and fiber materi earn $2.5 million, or 87 cent a share.th project improv reflect gain from an acquisition, reduc loss from unprofit lines, and open of a new elastom plant. 
 intern busi machin corp., in anoth move to regain ground on competitor such as digit equip corp., unveil four new model in it most power mid-rang comput line and it first mainfram comput price below $1 million. 
 "what we'v realli done . . . is enhanc our mid-range," said larri ford, an ibm vice president.mr. ford said that sinc last october, "we'v complet refresh the entir mainfram line." 
 mr. ford said that sinc last october, "we'v complet refresh the entir mainfram line."however, the machin aren't like to signific contribut to ibm sale until the fourth quarter; the new mainframe, the 3090 model 120, won't be avail until october, while the new machin in ibm 4381 medium-s line are schedul to be ship in the first quarter of 1988. 
 the four new 4381 comput are price between $225,000 and $890,000.the most potent of the four, the model 24, is at least six time more power than the entri level offer in the eight-model line. 
 under the plan, custom would get a current 4381 model and by the first quarter next year receiv accessori that convert the machin into the more power models.ibm offer a similar incent plan to boost current sale of an unavail product earlier this year, when it unveil two new model in it 3090, or sierra mainfram line. 
 mani of ibm 4381 customers, mid-siz busi or depart within larg companies, have reach the limit of the memori capac of the current models, but aren't readi to buy a mainfram yet, he added.th 4381 announc also put to rest specul that ibm would "quick obsolet the 4381 line" with the 9370 mid-siz line that was unveil last october, said david andrews, a consult with adm inc. of cheshire, conn. 
 the new mainfram "bring the 3090 down one more level," said ibm mr. ford.ibm also announc new softwar packages, includ the first softwar permit the develop of applic that will run across the so-cal system/370 line of computers.th system/370 line consist of the 9370 and 4381 mid-rang comput and the 3090 mainframes. 
 yesterday hardwar and softwar introduct are the most recent step in a flurri of move ibm has made sinc octob to fend off stiff competit from compani such as digit equipment, a major threat in the mid-rang market, and amdahl corp., which make machin that run softwar made for ibm mainframes.in addit to unveil the 9370 line, ibm has enhanc it lacklust workstation, the rt person computer, and cut price on it mainfram offer while introduc new ones.th compani also introduc a new line of person comput last month, in a bid to protect it posit in that market. 
 "no matter how you look at it, chrysler get a lot of valu for what it is paying," said scott merlis, an analyst with morgan stanley & co. "chrysler bring a lot of valu to amc, amc bring a lot of valu to chrysler."specifically, chrysler is expect to benefit great from amc popular jeep line -- it onli consist profit product -- and amc state-of-the-art assembl facil in bramlea, ontario. 
 beatric cos. said it file with the secur and exchang commiss for an initi public offer for it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 e-ii busi will includ stiffel lamps, samsonit luggag and the culligan water soften business.it food line will includ martha white bake mixes, lowrey meat snack and a private-label pizza business. 
 beatric food core includ swift meats, hunt tomato product and wesson cook oil.th e-ii offer continu beatric strategi of shed it non-food lines. 
 alfin inc., which has come under govern attack for anti-ag claim about it wrinkl creams, said it will report "signific losses, particular in the current fiscal quarter."th cosmet maker ad that it retain bear, stearn & co. to studi "financi alternatives," includ the sale of the skin-car line. 
 allis-chalm corp. said it receiv a $150 million propos for certain of it busi from chicago-bas ca ltd.the mine and miner process equip concern said ca has offer to buy allis-chalm solid process equip busi -- which also includ it energi and miner system line -- the stephens-adamson business, industri pump busi and power generat system business. 
 beatric cos. plan an initi public offer for it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 vast stretch of previous uninhabit wilder in such state as mato grosso, and even amazon, have been transform into some of the most product farm in the world.and the industri giant of sao paulo today success compet on an intern level and occasion pioneer advanc equipment, such as embraer success airline-manufactur line. 
 compani that sell car in the u.s. are requir by feder law to phase in passive-restraint system such as automat seat belt or airbags.ford didn't specifi which car line might get the safeti equipment, which protect passeng against injuri in head-on collisions, but said they would be ad to car with driver-sid air bags. 
 driver-sid air bag current are avail on four-door ford tempo and mercuri topaz models, as well as on some european import cars.robert h. munson, ford director of automot safety, said the passeng air bag will be offer on "certain car lines, assum the engin and test now under way demonstr that a safe, reliabl and effect system is practic and that an adequ suppli of such system is then available." 
 donald d. kingsborough, chairman and chief execut officer, said the drop in fourth-quart earn result from heavi invest in new product intend to diversifi operations.th compani soon will begin ship a line of school accessories, includ an answer machin for use in school locker -- a devic that is trigger to record messag by a whistle-lik activator. 
 the comput system, which isn't expect to be avail until the fourth quarter this year, will have a base price of $27,495.system 1300, as the new product is called, fill a gap in the compani line of multius comput system for business. 
 graphic packag corp., paoli, pa., began trade under the symbol gpak.th compani manufactur a divers line of flexibl packag product for various industries. 
 year-ago net includ a $4.2 million charg in connect with the close of a baby-food plant in oakland, calif.th compani said sale improv as a result of the widespread accept of a new line of babi food introduc in october. 
 he note that it offer smithklin an opportun to increas it share of the inject antibiot market and to increas tagamet use among hospit patients.ronald nordmann of painewebb inc. said the arrang will allow smithklin to boost sale of some of it antibiot that aren't sell well by "ti them into a program that promot a specif (product) line." 
 meanwhile, stapl competitor aren't stand still.discount warehous chain like price co. and costco wholesal corp., which sell a varieti of product and report receiv almost 10% of their revenu from sale of offic products, plan to expand office-suppli line. 
 the price of the contract wasn't disclosed, but galoob said it made an advanc payment and also will pay royalties.galoob said it will market a line of action figures, playsets, electron hand-held game and toy weapon base on the new program, which will begin oct. 3. 
 fortun friday report a first-quart net loss of $1.5 million, compar with a $345,000 profit a year earlier, on a 32% drop in revenu to $7.3 million.sci, an electron manufacturer, has said the acquisit of fortun microcomput busi will strengthen it own line of microcomput products. 
 "i'm surpris that would happen.i thought the main line (business) was pretti solid," said bert metter, who, until late april, was chairman and chief execut offic of thompson j. walter thompson usa unit. 
 "if i come into (a televis station) in los angel with a great show, they say, thank you veri much, goodbye,'" say andrew heyward, a former hanna barbera writer and stori editor who is now presid and major sharehold of dic enterprises."but if we go in and say, hey, we'v got a hot toy line come out from mattel, and normal they spend $7 million in your market on spot advertising, that a differ story." 
 year-earli net includ a gain of about $8.6 million from sale of a division.burlington also note gain in some industri and home-furnish lines. 
 sell scent get tougher, prompt a fragrance-industri shakeup.disappoint profit put mani fragranc line on the block, includ some own by drug companies. 
 the buyers: cosmet and fragranc companies.revlon group inc. purchas the dian von furstenberg fragranc from beecham group plc, while sanofi inc. buy distribut right to the nina ricci line from american cyanamid co. 
 boy and date came in sixth.leggi looks: thigh-high skirt sell well in design and junior lines. 
 a sale of the seven consum brand would take away valuabl robin assets.robin consum product unit, which compris the seven brand and a line of pet-car products, had oper profit of $52.7 million on sale of $267 million in 1986. 
 the latest announc includ some plant that just last month were temporarili shut down and then restarted.th car line affect by the new action includ the pontiac 6000 and the buick century. 
 benihana nation corp. said it has retain kidder, peabodi & co. to advis the compani on a sale, joint ventur or licens arrang of it frozen food division.th restaur and frozen food concern said a sale or other disposit of it two frozen food line would permit it to direct financi resourc to the develop of it restaur business. 
 low ingredi costs, heavi promot of new product and aggress market of establish line such as cereal and frozen food help profits. 
 ibm and appl are make big cut in the number of dealer who will be permit to carri their new products, but are tri to tie up more of the remain dealer shelf space and more of their salesmen "mind space" -- as one dealer put it.a a result, dealer will general becom more specialized, drop some manufactur product so they can concentr on a few main line and possibl focus on fewer type of customers. 
 those drawback like mean that as mani as a third of ibm current dealer will either decid not to carri the new product or won't qualify.but dealer say they like ibm move to use the new comput line to lock in big-busi customers, and those dealer who remain will have pledg allegi to big blue. 
 comput factori has cut about a third of the vendor it use to carry.th computerland corp. store in st. cloud, minn., chose not to renew it sale agreement with appl and may drop some printer line so it can concentr on ibm new printer line; mr. deboer of computerland predict it ibm sale will increas 15%. 
 "it was alreadi happening, but it was happen slowly."h say that not onli will dealer focus on fewer line of equipment, but that dealer will focus more on market nich -- concentr on busi of a certain size or on specif industries, such as bank or insurance. 
 the non-food busi had sale of $1.2 billion in the year end feb. 28, 1987, repres about 13% of beatric total.mr. kelli plan to assum control of the non-food company, the sourc said, gradual shed some line and perhap ad other in build an independ chicago-bas conglomerate. 
 upriver, men demonstr the busi end of a blowgun.here, at the ngiu kee depart store, cosmetologist demonstr the new bio line of natural-ingredi makeup put out by kenebo, the japanes cosmet firm. 
 mr. white point out that in fiscal 1985, sale of comput termin account for 96% of wyse business.aft acquir amdek corp., a distributor of electron products, in januari 1986, and after introduc it own line of person computers, the sale mix shift considerably. 
 ici america inc. announc a $50 million expans of it polyester-film plant in hopewell, va.th expans involv a new thick-film line that is slate to begin product in 1989 and increas plant capac 20%. 
 the japanese, launch their long-await effort to crack the u.s. supercomput market, introduc a three-machin line and vow to compet head-on with u.s. rivals. 
 energi convers devic inc. said it optic memory-storag technolog is be use by intern busi machin corp. in a new line of person computers. 
 the consum product and financi servic busi had lower oper earnings, greyhound said, though transport manufactur earn rose 7%.the compani said it line of household laundri product hadn't return to the profit level that prevail befor new-product spend by competitor was increas in mid 1986. 
 gm has design the program to bring custom into chevrolet showrooms, as buyer must sit insid a vehicl with a paper "key" from the procter & gambl product to see if they'v won.also includ in this joint promot is a new line of chevrolet pickup trucks. 
 gm other divis cut financ rate for 36-month and 48-month loan contracts.in addition, rebat for buick and oldsmobil model now are base on specif car line rather than on the type and number of option order with the car. 
 soon, gm will know whether it has been play leapfrog -- or just a desper game of follow-the-leader.six year and some $5 billion later, the no. 1 auto maker is prepar to introduc what could be it most import car line ever, now code-nam "gm-10." 
 and taurus and sabl have driven triumphant into the mid-siz market.at the same time, gm line of older, rear-wheel-dr mid-siz cars, such as the current regal and pontiac grand prix, is schedul for retirement. 
 gm also is count on gm-10 to help reduc it use of high-cost, in-hous part suppliers.for william j. clark, that meant tell former colleagu at a warren, mich., plant that they couldn't suppli gm-10 with a steering-system part as they have done with other gm lines. 
 separately, ford said it australian unit and nissan australian unit are discuss the possibl of joint sell certain model in australia.th discuss are a respons to the australian govern plan to limit the number of car line produc in that country. 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday, minnetonka share jump $3 to close at $29.375.the line plan for sale are softsoap liquid soap, villag bath soap and shampoo and sesam street bubbl bath and shampoo.jerom jenko, minnetonka vice presid and general counsel, estim total sale for the three line at more than $50 million last year. 
 jerom jenko, minnetonka vice presid and general counsel, estim total sale for the three line at more than $50 million last year.mr. jenko said the plan sale is part of a strategi to focus on the compani higher-margin lines, which includ obsess perfum and cologn and other calvin klein fragrances.also, minnetonka said it sign an agreement in principl to market calvin klein industri inc. line of women small leather accessori world-wid under the calvin klein trademark. 
 "restaur even did better on tomato soup than homemad or store-bought, which caus a lot of constern around here," say anthoni adams, campbel director of market research.so doe campbel regret name a new line of soup home cookin'? 
 reebok intern ltd. chairman paul fireman predict the canton, mass., concern would becom the lead maker of basketbal shoe by year end.reebok meteor rise was base on it aerobic-sho line; it ad basketbal sneaker last year. 
 in a speech in new york, compaq presid rod canion said "compaq intend to continu . . . provid industri standard" person computers.earli this month ibm introduc a new line of person comput that deviat in certain way from the standard it set with it ibm pc in 1981 -- the standard on which compaq base the $1.8 billion in comput it has sold sinc it start-up in 1983. 
 michael s. swavely, compaq vice president, marketing, said compaq would have "at least one major new product announc this year," fit the strategi outlin in mr. canion speech.but mr. swave wouldn't rule out the possibl of compaq produc a comput compat with the new ibm line.h said it was "conceivable" that compaq might eventu produc two line of comput base on the differ standards. 
 wilson has long had a reput for innovation, new product and smart marketing.even through the difficult time sinc it was spun off by ltv corp. in 1981, the compani maintain a research program that help develop it deli line and new technolog for tender fresh pork for it tendercut brand. 
 in the over-the-count market, sun microsystem rose 1 3/4 to 34 1/8, microsoft gain 7 1/4 to 106 1/4, lotus develop advanc 2 1/2 to 31 and apollo comput ad 2 to 20 1/8.appl computer, which plan to creat an independ softwar compani to develop and publish softwar for two of it comput lines, move up 2 to 77 in otc trade as volum top 1.4 million shares. 
 the need for regulatori approv and complex comput system keep mani small insur out of the variable-lif market.briefs: eldergames, a new line of game design for patient suffer memori loss, includ eldertrivia and memori jogger flashcards. . . . 
 prab robot inc. said westinghous electr corp. unim inc. unit agre in principl to licens prab to make, sell and servic unim line of hydraul unim industri robot in north and south america. 
 when the novel came on the market in late 1985, at least five hous want it.gerald howard, who run penguin contemporari american fiction line, say he took care of the competit by "read it veri quick and go nut for it." 
 mr. howard report that allianc entertain has paid a $10,000 option toward a $200,000 purchas if it like the script treatment.th caf line is the eight-year-old reprint hous for such sturdi modern master as donald barthelme, william kennedi and lauri colwin. 
 in the econom of modern mass-market paperback publishing, a serious literari novel that sell steadili but modest is near imposs to keep in print.nowadays, it is an outfit like caf, as well as random hous vintag line and a clutch of small presses, that offer the possibl of a long life for much serious fiction. 
 as with ibm, other comput concern report sharpli stronger march sales.th surg was part attribut to custom who had been hold back to evalu new model and enhanc in ibm sierra mainfram line. 
 american telephon & telegraph co. cut price 5% to 38% on it slow-sel person computers, reflect increas price competit in the wake of the new pc famili unveil earlier this month by intern busi machin corp.th biggest cut were made in the at&t pc 6300 plus line; the price of an entri model with a singl floppi disk drive fell 38% to $1,590, and the price of the top-of-the-lin model with a "hard" disk store the equival of 20,000 page of data was cut 29% to $3,065. 
 "i want to be in a situat where i can see some posit result veri quickly."at digital, the 51-year-old mr. kramer is best known as the product manag who built the compani line of pdp scientif comput into a $300 million busi by 1978. 
 mr. rattigan, 49 year old, was wide view as the architect of a sever cost-cut campaign that was larg respons for the return to profitability.whil sale gain have trail the increas in profit, the compani has been bet that it expand line of amiga person comput will spur revenu growth. 
 it was the first vaccin produc by gene-spl to gain fda market clearance.biocin was form to develop and put on the market a line of genet engin vaccin against a varieti of infecti diseas includ aids, oral, genit herpes, malaria and sever strain of hepatitis. 
 the slower sale growth for person comput also trigger a shakeout among personal-comput dealer that thin their rank by more than a third.and, as if that weren't enough, last year personal-comput price were driven down by the mani clone of ibm standard-set pc line of computers. 
 revenu fell 1.1% to $315.2 million from $318.8 million becaus of "the rapid deterior in sale of our older" comput products, said edson d. decastro, president.revenu from the mv line of super-minicomput grew, he said, and mani custom are inquir about computers, although they haven't yet place orders. 
 mr. henson said "our better-than-expect earn can be attribut to a surg in order late in the quarter," and cost controls.in february, he warn analyst to expect flat result becaus custom were hold off purchas while wait for a new line of machin to becom available. 
 stratus make "fault tolerant" comput that can handl a constant stream of task without break down.it said that product in a new line of comput it introduc feb. 2 account for 75% of it first-quart revenue. 
 comput sale account for rough 25% of the compani sales, accord to analysts.unit sale for the compani line of comput compat with intern busi machin corp. pc increas 62% in the quarter.som analyst had suggest that comput sale might be upset by the introduct of a new line of person comput from ibm, expect throughout the quarter. 
 her respons includ order supplies, type sale reports, coordin travel arrang and make morn coffee.sh also repres a small peripher line she'd learn about while clean out the offic files. 
 sinc no one els was interest in handl the project, the district manag let her take it on in addit to her other responsibilities.when she succeed with that line, she took on sever other small products. 
 merlin ii, the larger of the new merlin systems, can accommod as mani as 32 line and 72 phones.th new merlin, which essenti replac the exist merlin line, has more featur such as track length and durat of call by phone, than the spirit system, at&t said.smal model of both line will be avail by may, with larger model avail in the third quarter. 
 digit equip corp. pull the plug on it slow-sel rainbow line of person computers. 
 he ad that "this year we'r go to make sure the revenu (growth) is real, and then let the expens follow."in particular, xerox is benefit from an aggressive, two-year program of cost-cut in it office-equip lines. 
 the rebound is most evid in xerox first-quart earn from continu operations, which rose 32% to $135 million, or $1.25 a share, compar with $102 million, or 93 cent a share, a year ago.pre-tax profit from xerox photocopi and computer-system line was doubl that of the year-earli period. 
 thoma industri inc. said it has sign an agreement with schreder light of brussels, belgium, to make and market schreder line of tunnel light product in the u.s. and canada, except quebec. 
 thomas, which make a broad rang of light products, said it emco light divis in milan, ill., will make and market the schreder products.schred make tunnel light from 18 factori world-wid and also make a broad line of outdoor light products. 
 in the year-earli quarter, the oil and gas concern had net incom of $22.1 million, or 45 cent a share, on sale of $718.9 million.kerr-mcge said all it line were profit in the 1987 quarter except for it contract drill and uranium operations, which incur "small losses." 
 the execut said inventori were reduc 34% dure the quarter to $59 million from $79 million, and that short-term bank debt was reduc 57% to $58 million from $91 million.in explain the lower profit margins, they cite a higher concentr of season outdoor product sales, which carri lower margin than the remaind of coleco line, and sale of cabbag patch kid doll at lower margins, part becaus of special first-quart sale incentives. 
 first-quart oper profit, befor special gains, reach a record $65 million, up 68% from $38.8 million a year earlier.transamerica attribut the improv to signific higher earn across a broad line of it businesses. 
 until recently, rorer was a lacklust compani whose lead over-the-count brand, maalox antacid, was lose market share.but under it new chairman and chief execut officer, robert e. cawthorn, the compani has been push to becom a top drug maker by narrow it focus and search for a major acquisit with strong cash flow and a compat line of prescription-drug products. 
 ronald m. nordmann, a drug analyst at painewebber, said robin would constitut "a veri good catch" for rorer, provid the dalkon shield liabil could be cap at a "reasonable" level.bi acquir robins, rorer could build it prescription- and over-the-count drug lines, he said. 
 philip morri said the market share of it u.s. tobacco unit increas compar with a year ago, although cigarett unit volum fell for both the industri and philip morri u.s.a.th compani said lower retail price boost sale for general food maxwel hous coffe line, while strong gain also were achiev for loui rich turkey products. 
 the maker of air-condit and heat equip expect earn for the second quarter -- historically, it best period of the year -- to exceed year-earli net incom of $5.3 million, or 61 cent a share, jame t. dresher, vice chairman, said.som of the gain will come from sale of a new line of rooftop air condition suit for fast-food restaur and strip shop centers, mr. dresher said in an interview. 
 as reported, avon has agre in principl to acquir giorgio inc., a bever hills, calif.-bas fragranc maker, for $185 million, and there are plan for other acquisit soon, he said.specifically, mr. waldron express a strong interest in the elizabeth arden line that the indianapoli pharmaceut concern eli lilli & co. has said it is selling. 
 appl comput profit rose an unexpect 6.5% in it latest quarter, surpris even the company.sal surg 41%, led by continu strength in the macintosh comput line. 
 "the obvious surpris is how well our sale are doing," said robert saltmarsh, appl treasurer, who ad that their sale growth "is realli broad based."appl has enjoy continu strong sale of it macintosh line of person comput to the import busi market. 
 in addition, mr. saltmarsh said, the compani 10-year-old appl ii product line, which cater to home and educ markets, continu to sell well.ship of the newest machin in the line, the appl ii-g introduc last fall, have pick up. 
 the machin "are crucial for prime.they had a need to expand their line," said richard mikita, an analyst with market research intern data corp., framingham, mass. 
 separately, wang introduc sever new product that allow pictur and imag to be store on optic disk and then shown on special comput screens.th system work with wang current line of computers, and wang offici predict they may sell as much as $100 million of the system in fiscal 1988. 
 comput associ has grown rapid by focus on a part of the softwar market call system utilities, which help data process center manag their oper more efficiently.it has made a seri of acquisit to broaden it line of busi software, includ the purchas of softwar intern corp. and integr softwar system corp. last december. 
 the big piec left are financi services, auto parts, defens and aerospace, industri and forest products, communications, and hotels.mr. kelli envis a manufactur acquisit that would, for example, add to the auto-part line. 
 basic are no secret to merchandisers.for mani year major retail identifi basic item in all stapl line and made certain they were "alway available." 
 for years, rorer group inc. was regard as a dull laggard of the drug industry.it had a tini research budget and a weak prescription-drug line. 
 despit such ambiti moves, mr. cawthorn acknowledg that a lot more will be need to catapult rorer into a leadership position.ideally, he say he would like to buy a compani with "strong cash flow" and a compat line of prescription-drug products. 
 tandi corp. comput sale weren't hurt in it third quarter end march 31 by the expect that intern busi machin corp. would announc a new line of person computers, tandi chairman, john roach, said. 
 overal comput sale in the consum electron concern fiscal third quarter rose 16%, he said.both percentag figur includ tandi line of comput that aren't ibm-compatible, as well as those that are. 
 the increas was primarili fuel by ibm larg mainfram computers, analyst said.sal sputter earlier in the quarter, larg becaus custom were scrutin ibm januari introduct of two new model and price cut in it so-cal sierra mainfram line. "(we) began to gain momentum and had an excel march," an ibm spokesman said. 
 "that when they'll be hit on all eight cylinders," montgomeri mr. jone said.in july, the compani is expect to start deliv it new midrang computers; ibm sale of it new person comput line, unveil earlier this month, also will be well under way and the compani expens should be lower. 
 "profit margin are still under pressur and price are still under pressur in the comput industri and aren't like to let up."ibm profit margin declin almost three percentag point in the quarter, reflect price cut in the person comput line "and some other products," the ibm spokesman said. 
 at $165 an ounce, "clear (giorgio) reach a veri carriag trade business."h said avon will keep giorgio and it tradit busi separ and that avon repres won't sell the giorgio line. 
 a spokesman said the plan transact doesn't forestal other acquisit by avon for it beauti or health care operations.for one thing, he said, the compani continu to be "veri interested" in the elizabeth arden line that eli lilli & co., indianapolis, has said it want to sell. 
 "still, with the introduct of the new ibm machin it an import time for compaq and it would be better to have him than not," mr. galvin added.intern busi machin corp. last week introduc a new line of person comput that will compet with compaq line, which has grown from the origin portabl to includ a number of desktop models. 
 in it complaint file in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york, american natur beverag corp., maker of soho natur soda, claim anheuser-busch packag for zeltzer seltzer is "confus similar" to that for soho natural.clos held american natur said it has use it current packag design for soho natur sinc 1982 and sell the fruit-flavor line of soda in 33 states. 
 robert h. smith, national-oilwel chairman, said, "bi combin the strength of two of the lead compani in the field, we are form an entiti which can surviv under current depress industri conditions."th compani make and sell a complet line of drill and product equipment. 
 mr. frain, a market specialist, was chosen in late januari to be the first presid and chief execut offic of alfr dunhil of london inc., the u.s. arm of dunhil holdings.h say the compani plan to expand beyond it tradit line of veri expens smoker products, into veri expens "serious menswear." 
 we mix tobacco for individu customers."and so the line of suit dunhil plan to launch will have a "bottom price point" of $750.most of the line, which will emphas custom fit and hand tailoring, will hover around the $2,000 mark, accord to mr. frain. 
 menswear, which in the u.s. now includ fine tailor products, make up 30% of sales.mr. frain say he will focus in the u.s. on retail and on more complet menswear lines. 
 "the averag person isn't interested."nor doe mr. farley want viewer to rememb him display the compani latest line of underwear. 
 the compani said it purchas of 4.2 million of it share dure 1986 fuel a 15% rise in earn per share.despit sale increas in electronics, major applianc and other lines, raytheon report lower sale in energi servic and aircraft products. 
 onc sleepi glenmor is take lot of gambl these days.th "light of day" project was mere the start of a major reposit campaign to liven up it old-fashion mr. boston line of liqueur and other distil spirits. 
 sale for the quarter exceed $200 million, he said.th earn and sale figures, both better than analyst expected, indic that compaq sale dure the quarter weren't hurt signific by the prospect of a new line of comput that intern busi machin corp. was expect to introduc at the end of the period. 
 she ad 1980s sunglasses, patch and labeling, and had the compani sponsor a women surf cup.mrs. gibson also help origin limit pseudo-italian forenza line and has introduc new label like outback red, an australian safari look, and axcess accessories. 
 but as mrs. gibson experi with more upscal and expens merchandise, and as the store target popul ages, analyst say she will have to keep a care eye on the ident of both store and merchandise.certain not all of her move score; accord to one analyst, the album by kenzo -- a line of recent year -- has been vast scale back becaus it "didn't fit." 
 when she surfaces, she is friend but blunt."you know i alway tell the truth," she warn one design who ask what she thought of the line of blue jean and sweatshirt he'd just love presented. 
 varian associ inc. said it receiv a three-year contract for more than $30 million from toshiba corp.varian will suppli x-ray tube for the tokyo compani line of computer tomographi scanners. 
 the maker of disk drive control wouldn't elabor on the size of the expect loss, but a spokesman said the compani doesn't expect to have ani futur busi with ibm.th part the compani use to suppli to ibm are for machin that are be phase out in connect with the big comput maker recent introduc line of person computers. 
 carlo de benedetti, chairman of ing. c. olivetti & co., announc plan to launch a new line of olivetti person comput and minicomput in june and to set up an industri hold compani in spain. 
 in over-the-count trading, share of clone-mak wyse technolog inc. also rose, and appl comput inc. stock was up sharply."aft all the dust settl from the big announcement, the long wait begins," said appl chairman john sculley, contend that appl is way ahead of ibm. similarly, compaq presid rod canion said he doesn't see ani need for price cut or product chang and that ibm new line "doesn't offer ani major new advantag and isn't veri aggress from a price standpoint." 
 but in move against such clone as epson, ibm may be appli more immedi pressur through it new, tighter approach to pc dealers.big blue is restrict the number of dealer -- now total 2,300 for the old line -- that will be author to sell the newest and highest-pr product by creat a special class of retailer. 
 moreover, the dealer must meet certain sale quotas, carri other design ibm products, report sale to ibm month and bolster custom support.such requir may forc some dealer to drop other brand to spend more time and resourc on the ibm line. 
 "anyon who carri four or five (brands) will have to reevalu it," said bert helfinstein, chairman of entr comput center inc. ad jim levinson, who own three computerland store in cincinnati: "the kind of thing (ibm) is ask for are veri money-intens . . . it go to make us rethink our busi totally."th low end of the ibm line consist of two model that ibm said are as much as 2 1/2 time faster than the exist pc xt, have more memori and have better graphics, and are lower priced. 
 ibm also announc dozen of other hardwar and softwar product includ five printers, computer-network programs, and a desktop-publish system price at $8,553, which some analyst saw as aggress priced.to clear store shelv for the new products, ibm made these price reductions: a 35% cut to $1,395 for a model of the pc xt and a 32% cut to $1,545 for another; a 15% cut to $1,695 for the pc convert "laptop"; a 17% cut to $2,810 for anoth xt model; a 13% cut to $4,595 for two pc at versions; 9.3% cut to $6,810 for two other ats, and cut of 4% to 10% for four model of ibm slow-sel 3270 pc line. 
 "sun workstat typic are sold in a configur of five or eight workstations, while a macintosh ii will be more of a stand-alon workstation," he said.a spokesman for apollo comput said that the compani doesn't have ani workstat direct compet with the low end of sun line, and that it unit remain price competit against sun more power models. 
 at dec. 31 fortun cash asset total $20.5 million and it sharehold equiti was $51 million.sci, an electron manufacturer, said the acquisit of fortun microcomput busi would strengthen it own line of microcomput products. 
 it next new, high-volum car, the mid-siz gm10 model, won't debut until this fall, and then onli initi in one version at one division.until then, the compani has to reli on it exist lines, which haven't been sell well, despit cash rebates, option packag rebat and low-interest financ rate that current cover more than half it cars. 
 ibm unveil it new line of person computers, mark a new era of competit in the market. 
 and while mr. herbert say he expect the compani to grow internally, he say he also expect it to "be aggress look for acquisit that will dramat expand the business."whil the unit has alway look for acquistions, he says, now it like will be look more broad than just at line that supplement minut maid chill or frozen business. 
 decis percol to the top for even minor entertain expenses.until recently, vice chairman j. phillip samper, who head photograph and inform products, could be call upon to make a decis on ani one of 50,000 products. (now business-unit manag are respons for their own lines.) 
 in recent quarter feder has focus on new chicken product that are gear to current consum trend and also command higher prices.item like it time trimmer line of filleted, quick-to-prepar chicken part have been pay off. 
 lately, consult have had a field day ridicul unwieldi new corpor name like allegi and trinova.but the most critic name seem to be honda motor co. acura car line. 
 geo.a. hormel & co. test top shelf, a line of entre such as boneless beef rib that can be heat in two minutes. 
 carson piri scott & co. in chicago spin off three concepts: corpor level for executives, arcadia for gift and cards, and inpuls for knitwear.to control select and display, liz claiborn inc. plan it own store with a new line of cloth in late 1987 or earli 1988. 
 monarch avalon inc. said earn for the year end april 30 won't be aid by a new line of toy becaus it won't begin sell the toy until may.in an earlier edition, a. eric dott, president, said the compani would begin sell the line in april. 
 whi creat someth new?"whil moline, ill.-bas deer will still be abl to market it smaller line of diesel engin through detroit diesel expans distribut network, it must now look for a way to develop a new engin for the 1990s, analyst said. 
 after month of angst in the comput industri and seem endless rumors, intern busi machin corp. final will introduc it new line of person comput on thursday. 
 yet some student of histori may recal that appl ran a smug ad in 1981 welcom ibm to the pc market -- then watch as ibm market share quick dwarf apple's.in ani case, competitor seem readi to final face realiti and either take their lump or perhap profit from ani weak in the ibm line. 
 scime also said that it and certain of it stockhold have grant bristol-my option to buy more than 50% of all author share at $29.25 a share.scimed, which designs, make and market dispos medic product use to treat cardiovascular disease, recent introduc a line of coronari balloon angioplasti cathet to widen obstruct coronari arteries, facilit blood flow. 
 for market of new products, this lack of gusto mean trouble.but langer suggest that habit shopper may be more will to tri new product if they are line extens with familiar brand names. 
 new busi that offici expect to contribut to futur sale and profit includ waste-to-energi systems, hazardous- and toxic-wast cleanups, busi communications, space commerci and electron secur system for nuclear plants.thes line current have sale of about $50 million and are expect to contribut $300 million to $500 million in sale by 1989. 
 xerox corp., too, has been use product semant increas in it design strategy, a move it claim has result in less train for user and fewer servic call to remedi simpl problems.recently, the compani introduc a line of copier that call to mind typic offic desks, with flat surfac for paperwork on top and storag space and access door below. 
 ibm will unveil it new line of person comput thursday, end month of speculation. 
 a 60-day to 65-day suppli is consid normal.th compani has also suffer declin sale and high inventori in some of it truck lines, mean the strike shouldn't have a signific financi effect unless it last a long time, analyst said. 
 "a strike would probabl help," said philip k. frick of goldman, sach & co.in addition, most of the truck line produc in pontiac are also made at other plants. 
 other analyst believ that bull see the partnership as a way to broaden it intern market, while nec view it as a way to expand technolog exports.nec produc mani part in honeywel current comput line. 
 mr. fireman said that he will focus his own effort on strateg planning, acquisit and overse operations.canton, mass.-bas reebok has grown rapidly, with sale tripl last year to $919.4 million, on the strength of it stylish aerob shoe follow by other athlet shoe lines. 
 monarch avalon inc. expect fiscal 1987 earn to match last year $154,000, or eight cent a share, a. eric dott, president, said.mr. dott cite strong fourth-quart sale from sever new board game and a new line of toys. 
 for the first nine months, mattel net incom fell 75% to $18.6 million, or 31 cent a share, from $73.4 million, or $1.37 a share, a year earlier.harold vogel, a merril lynch & co. analyst, said mattel major problem is that unsold retail inventori of it "master of the universe" line of toy are still veri large. 
 sever new toy that were consid possibl hit for this year have fail to live up to expectations.coleco rambo, pawtucket, r.i.-bas hasbro inc. inhumanoids, and beverly, mass.-bas kenner parker toy inc. centurions, all action-figur line for boys, haven't sold well. 
 hasbro transform action figures, which had sale of $335 million last year, will declin to about $195 million in 1986, the compani said.and hawthorne, calif.-bas mattel inc. said that sale of it master of the univers charact will declin "significantly" from 1985 sale of about $400 million for the line. 
 but 1987 look brighter for the industry.analyst and toy buyer said the major compani will have better line of action figur and doll than they did this year. 
 coleco will introduc miniatur doll with magnet on their feet, which are part of a u.s. space forc and use equip with littl motor to lift cargo and other items.toy buyer and analyst said extens of sever lines, such as hasbro rock star jem, also may be winners. 
 his fashion company, fiorucci s.p.a., of which he is one-third owner, expect pre-tax profit this year of $3 million on sale of $80 million, up from profit of about $800,000 on sale of $60 million last year.mr. fiorucci rework fashion -- the current men line, classic nouveau, invok the 1940s -- and mass item like blue jean are a big hit in france, west germani and south america. 
 though fiorucci make main clothes, it has design such thing as wall clock and tableware.at the compani milan headquarters, the team of 16 design is work on a line that includ durabl and expensive-look leather jacket as well as chunki sweater and more blue jeans. 
 term of the transact with henkel, which is expect to close earli next year, weren't disclosed.th nopco line has annual sale of about $160 million. 
 the new divis will be call the busi product & system group.earn from xerox troubl office-equip lines, which also includ printer and computers, have declin in each of the first three quarter this year. 
 the relianc acquisit brought exxon a number of problem relat to relianc feder pacif electr co. unit.problem with the design of a line of feder pacif circuit breaker led to a cost recall. 
 ply-gem industri inc. said it agre to acquir close held great lake window corp., toledo, ohio, for $18 million.th purchase, which will add to ply-gem line of specialti home-improv products, is expect to close befor year end. 
 mr. hassenfeld said the compani transform action toy group would be the largest categori contribut to 1986 results.hasbro reiter that it expect sale of the line to fall; mr. hassenfeld estim the sale would fall to $195 million this year from $335 million last year. 
 mr. scharffenberg say mr. meenaghan "has a good, thorough insur background."mr. meenaghan say home will "pursu growth aggressively" in some special lines, but the growth will be orderly. 
 in composit trade on the new york stock exchang yesterday, first interst close at $54.25 a share, down 25 cents; bankamerica close at $14.625 a share, unchanged.separately, bankamerica agre as part of a restructur to sell bank of america consum trust line to the well fargo bank unit of well fargo & co., anoth san francisco bank concern, for $100 million. 
 after some debate, ansel decid to relaunch lifestyl instead of introduc a new brand.but it still plan to add new product to the line, and it is still consid chang the name to partners. 
 through qo chemicals, pentech produc certain specialti chemic that are use to make furfuryl alcohol and other product use in foundri resins, plastics, flame retard build materials, oil refin and urethan systems.great lake said qo specialti chemic line fit well into sever market it alreadi serv and enhanc it intern presence. 
 hasbro inc. say tonka corp. ran off with it new toy.hasbro accus tonka of misappropri inform about a "secret" concept for a toy line -- industri rumor are that it involv a holograph techniqu -- that hasbro plan to introduc in februari at the big annual toy fair in new york. 
 "their claim are total without merit," say stephen g. shank, tonka chief execut offic and president."it appear that hasbro is just concern that we have a line into the market befor them." 
 but tonka execut recent told industri analyst that it plan to introduc a toy next year that will featur holograph technology, which use laser light to produc three-dimension images.among hasbro current top seller are it g.i. joe and transform lines; tonka has score big sale recent with it pound puppi line. 
 the toy fair is consid a crucial launch pad for new toy and game for the $12 billion industry.th suit assert that "exclus for a concept at the toy fair can mean the differ between success and failur of an entir toy line." 
 that market is in disord as the comput industri undergo a long-predict consolidation.thi year sever big compani gave up on be independ supplier of a broad line of comput systems: control data corp. is now concentr on certain niches; sperri corp. join with burrough corp. to form unisi corp., and honeywel inc. has decid to merg it comput oper with those of two big oversea comput makers. 
 this year sever big compani gave up on be independ supplier of a broad line of comput systems: control data corp. is now concentr on certain niches; sperri corp. join with burrough corp. to form unisi corp., and honeywel inc. has decid to merg it comput oper with those of two big oversea comput makers.today, data general execut say, their compani is in a select group that includ ibm, digit and hewlett-packard inc. as maker of a broad line of comput product for offic and factories. 
 for example, general electr co. recent agre to joint sell a factory-autom system ge develop at it schenectady, n.y., turbin facility.whil data general continu to make a broad line of comput and software, it is focus on fewer markets. 
 ge is the 10th largest u.s. industri company, and it $39.5 billion stock market valu trail onli intern busi machin and exxon.also, in an era that valu stand-alon busi and discount conglomerates, ge has 14 major lines. 
 under the agreement, appl can't challeng franklin in court again until late next year.currently, franklin sell a line of appl iie- and iic-compat machin that it say don't violat appl patents. 
 the compani said it acquir 15 product with annual sale total less than $10 million and will market them in west germany.among them are a line of topic antirheumatics, which are product to eas arthritis-lik pain, and a line of topic and oral acn treatments. 
 the compani said profit growth stem part from a steadi flow of products.in particular, it cite the strong perform of it fibr trim diet line. 
 such factor have led a number of japanes concern to seek u.s. product capabilities, most recent in semiconductors.th agreement should buttress xerox line of electron typewriters. 
 xerox, which has never done high-volum manufactur for anoth company, also should benefit becaus it will be abl to use more of the capac at it high autom factori in fremont, calif.brother, base in nagoya, japan, said the xerox daisy-wheel printer will give it a faster, more power product than it now has in that line. 
 in each year sinc 1961, he has turn out draw for about 600 women outfits, display in four separ collections.unlik most high-fashion hous here, yves saint laurent s.a. make money on sell the fancy, expens cloth mr. saint laurent designs, as well as the more-access ready-to-wear lines. 
 in the 1970s, toshiba focus on integr circuit for consum goods, neglect the industri chip use in computers.bi the time the compani began make those chips, nec and hitachi ltd. were so far ahead in memori chip that toshiba consid drop the line. 
 he didn't set a timet for the reduction.ask at the meet whether the compani increas leverag meant that coca-cola was "load for bear," -- prepar for an acquisit -- mr. goizueta reiter that ani fresh acquisit would be within the compani exist lines. 
 american cyanamid co. said it is put up for sale it fragranc and skin-car business, jacquelin cochran inc.cyanamid said the business, which includ the la prairi skin-car line, is "a small part" of the shulton consum product segment it acquir in 1971. 
 eli lilli & co. hybritech inc. unit file a patent infring suit against abbott laboratori in a feder court in los angeles. lilli unit claim in the suit that north chicago, ill.-bas abbott sell diagnost kit that infring on hybritech tandem brand name line of test products. lilli said the hybritech line is base on a patent method of use monoclon antibodi to detect pregnancy, cancer and infecti disease. 
 conoco is a unit of wilmington, del.-bas du pont co.basf, a unit of basf ag of west germany, is a major supplier of private-brand antifreeze/cool with annual sale of about $90 million to $100 million for that line. 
 bull make and market some honeywell-model midsiz comput outsid the u.s.and honeywel market nec supercomput line and bull network know-how in the u.s. 
 in 1985, princ repres about 2% of chesebrough $2.7 billion in sales, and bass account for about 6%.unilev has said that it main interest in chesebrough is the compani personal-car products, such as vaselin and q-tips, and it food products, includ the ragu line. 
 detail of the agreement weren't disclosed.a spokeswoman for the pharmaceut concern said syntex, which market a full line of oral contracept in this countri under it own name, enter the agreement with rugbi laboratori inc. in order to make use of excess manufactur capacity. 
 a spokeswoman for the pharmaceut concern said syntex, which market a full line of oral contracept in this countri under it own name, enter the agreement with rugbi laboratori inc. in order to make use of excess manufactur capacity.th oral contracept syntex will manufactur and sell to rugbi are ident to a line syntex produc on which patent protect has expired, she added. 
 oak said the group it is acquir from new york-bas electron technolog had revenu of $18.7 million in the fiscal year end sept. 30.oak, which produc cabl televis equipment, previous said it was plan an acquisit program involv smaller addit to it current lines, and possibl larger purchas outsid it current business. 
 unilev had alreadi care studi chesebrough as one of sever possibl acquisit target in the u.s., mr. angus said.th compani want richardson-vick part for it oil of olay line of skin products. 
 canada dri report a $2.3 million loss in 1986.the acquisit complement the intern strength of it schwepp line of mixers, cadburi said. 
 time mirror -- which publish the los angel time and other newspap -- own onli one trade publication, a st. louis-bas magazin call sport good dealer.but the compani note that it also own sever special public and has been tri to expand that line. 
 mani retail report tight inventori and few plan for big promot sale in the week ahead.higher-pr good were the best seller in line rang from toy to apparel, part because, some retail thought, of the new tax law, which will elimin deduct for sale tax begin next year. 
 she is one of sever charact that togeth brought in $17.6 million in licens fee to american greet in it fiscal 1986, end last feb. 28.the summary-tri juri decid for american greet in find that there had been no intent for mrs. sargent to have commerci right to the work she did for the compani and that her 1977 work on so-cal leader cards, which were part of the process of develop the strawberri shortcak line of greet cards, wasn't original. 
 analyst said that some of it recent introduc toy give it a good chanc of return to profit in 1987.in particular, coleco new starcom toy -- male action figur that move via magnet and spring -- give "everi indic of be one of the best new action line this year," said david liebowitz, an analyst with american secur corp. other promis new product includ a new line of talk cabbag patch kids, a new board game name ubi and talk toy name story-tel alf and wisecrack alf, mr. liebowitz added. 
 it use electr puls appli through electrod pad appli to a patient back and chest, zmi added.zmi said the decis will result in cardiac be enjoin from make and sell it line of pace aid pacemakers. 
 but other sourc said the purchas may be complet by the end of the week.revlon is also negoti to licens the claud montana fragranc line from monteil, the sourc said. 
 you wouldn't write home about their profits."ms. hall also said that revlon may be look at other cosmet line that are current up for sale.som wall street sourc are specul that among those line are piec of charl of the ritz group ltd., recent purchas by yves saint laurent intern s.a. 
 some wall street sourc are specul that among those line are piec of charl of the ritz group ltd., recent purchas by yves saint laurent intern s.a.a previous reported, paris-bas saint laurent is sell the upscal charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff brands, as well as less prestigi line such as jean nate and bain de soleil. 
 mr. richman doesn't expect big problems, and he promis improv profit over the next three to five year through steady, prudent growth.th compani has a strong base: 15 of it domest line are no. 1 brand in their product categories. 
 while tri to reviv it consum product business, it miss out on the frozen entre boom; frozen food is the fastest-grow packag food area right now.th compani tri a line of frozen chees dinner that it quiet fold last year. 
 but kraft is tri again.it current is test a line of frozen entre that includ lasagna and sever meat dishes. 
 some in the industri doubt whether mr. richman is up to the job.an attorney who join kraft law depart in 1954 after graduat from harvard law school, his background isn't in marketing, which is what need to pump new life into tire lines. 
 an attorney who join kraft law depart in 1954 after graduat from harvard law school, his background isn't in marketing, which is what need to pump new life into tire lines.when he spoke to analyst last week in florida, mr. richman was enthusiast about line extensions, which are new version of exist brands. 
 but some analyst scof that he seem to have just discov a strategi that other food giant have use for years.a kraft spokesman said, however, that no matter what other compani have done, kraft still has room for line extens becaus it hasn't use that strategi much. 
 coleco said cabbag patch kid sale underw a 62% declin in 1986 to about $230 million from $600 million a year earlier.moreover, toy introduc by coleco in 1986 -- includ it rambo, furskin and wrinkl line of toy -- didn't do much to offset coleco declin sales. 
 but saint laurent also is sell the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff brands, which are more prestigious.asid from saint laurent products, the onli signific line it is retain is one call gianni versace. 
 for fiscal 1986, litton had net incom of $71.1 million, or $2.52 a share, on sale of $4.52 billion.litton didn't break out pre-tax profit by segment, although it industri system and servic line, of which the resourc group is part, had a loss of $30.5 million. 
 more than half the industri system and servic revenu came from the oil-servic business.litton said it hasn't ani plan to shed the petroleum servic lines, and ad that the ventur with dresser "repres an expans of the business."litton said the atlas divis of dallas-bas dresser is involv with oil well log (measuring) servic that would complement litton current seismic exploration, reservoir description, core analysi and data interpret lines. 
 hyundai motor america said it rais the base price on it excel subcompact car line an averag of 2.1%. 
 he said that for everi quarter in which the fcc fail to make a decision, the compani earn will be reduced.however, he said that even if the fcc didn't certifi the readers, and the compani was forc to elimin the line, checkpoint still wouldn't sustain a loss. 
 friday close of $6.375, down 12.5 cents, indic the market current valu the compani at about $164 million, repres a loss in market valu of $254 million sinc june.th compani loss are main the result of the cost of expansion, some poor perform merchandis line and it entri in the southwest market, where retail are suffer from the rippl effect of the energi slump. 
 ross store said it will close 25 underperform stores, most locat in the depress energi states, and open 10 new store in other exist markets.charg relat to the closur and to discontinu merchandis line will result in a pre-tax fourth period charg of $40 million, the compani said. 
 balli drive into the hotel-casino industri has made health club an increas awkward fit, analyst said, and thus the most like candid for divestiture.bi shed the health-club line, balli could focus on it remain oper -- gambl machines, state lotteri and amus centers. 
 the charg produc a big loss in 1984.and some investors, nervous that health club also are a fad business, question whether balli isn't build up a line that could collaps just as quickly. 
 briefs: univers of louisvill presid donald swain becom the first univers presid to head a local chamber of commerce. . . .white chocol is one of three flavor offer in neiman-marcus chocolate-flavor toothpast line. 
 for a short time, they will donat a few cent from each sale to a charity.but scott paper co. has carri the idea further by creat a line of seven products, a portion of whose sale alway go to charity. 
 after six month in test in the western u.s., scott say help hand is on target, have contribut $600,000 of it first-year goal of $1 million."we'r abl to afford the donat becaus of the market effici of advertis the entir line as one brand," say don dietrich, a scott executive. 
 it cite tyco doubl dough doer and flower makin basket extrus toys.also name in the suit was glad inc., a close held new york compani that kenner parker said help design tyco line. 
 mr. young, hewlett-packard chief executive, said, "our goal is to manag expens so that they grow at a slower rate than revenue, while maintain our commit to new-product develop and support."hewlett-packard has said it will ship a newli design line of busi minicomputers, it model 930 and 950, dure the second half of calendar 1987, a deadlin be close watch by investor and custom alike. 
 net incom in the year-earli period includ a tax credit of $20.6 million.mattel has said that lower domest demand for it master of the univers line of toy was one factor troubl the compani in 1986. 
 kodak even launch it own blimp in japan to counter fuji green blimp that fli at special event in the u.s.fuji has upstag kodak in the past, most notabl in 1983 when it introduc a new line of film short befor kodak unveil it new film. 
 the unit had 1986 sale of about $362 million.th third main line of the wholesal distribut group, amfac health care, which distribut pharmaceuticals, "has turn the corner toward profitability," the compani said. 
 term of the sale by the baker oil tool inc. unit to trico, a maker of petroleum industri equipment, weren't disclosed.bak intern has said, however, that it expect proceed from sale of the pump busi and of baker tricon rock bit line to total as much as $75 million.a baker spokesman said that the drill bit line is "substanti larger" than the pump business, and that discuss with "sever interest parties" about the drill bit oper are continuing. 
 a baker spokesman said that the drill bit line is "substanti larger" than the pump business, and that discuss with "sever interest parties" about the drill bit oper are continuing.a previous reported, the justic depart had warn that it would sue to block the propos merger unless the two baker line were sold. 
 moreover, the new at&t machin come as mani manufactur -- led by compaq -- are move to a new generat of machin base on the far more power intel 80386 microchip.at&t new machines, price from $3,045 to $5,795 depend on features, aren't much cheaper than the ibm line and don't use at&t unix oper system, which it has been push as a new industri standard. 
 a polaroid spokesman said the cambridge, mass.-bas compani sold 4.3 million instant camera last year, an 800,000 increas from 1985, and that sale of the compani new spectra camera, introduc in april, account for the bulk of the increase."spectra was the big gun in term of (the increas in camera) unit sold, and spectra sold for more money than our other camera lines," he said. 
 fixed-incom fund should attract the lion share of sale but some say by a lower margin than past year becaus of low rates.new toy abound, mani of them high tech, as fantasi line decline. 
 "this year is like to see a record number of new product from the major companies," say analyst david liebowitz of american secur corp.on reason: the peak of sever import toy lines, includ cabbag patch dolls, transform and master of the universe. 
 result also were depress somewhat by the time of the complet last novemb of vf acquisit of blue bell hold co., which had the effect of incorpor season depress decemb sale of some blue bell units.vf own jean line, the lee brand, also experienc some sluggishness. 
 system softwar associ inc. said it complet it initi offer of 1,357,100 common share at $13 each.th chicago-bas compani develops, market and support an integr line of busi applic softwar for certain intern busi machin corp. computers. 
 these divis includ bassett walker, a maker of sweat suit and relat apparel; vaniti fair, a lingeri maker; and modern globe, an underwear maker.mr. pugh said vf has complet it integr of blue bell apparel oper and now is work on "reestablish the identity" of the wrangler jean brand while continu to expand market share for rustler, blue bell other jean line. 
 reebok chief financi offic attribut the activ to posit reaction to the compani product at a sport good trade show over the weekend."som skeptic that might have exist about the compani abil to keep (growth) go was remov by the posit respons to our footwear and our apparel line," he said. 
 the group make hydraul devices, larg for use in road equipment, and material-handl machineri use in airports.whittak is involv in a restructur program design to help the compani focus on it technolog and chemic lines. 
 saturn has it own engineering, design and market staffs.similarly, 3m co. allow it employe to spend as much as 15% of their time on independ develop projects, one of which becam the phenomen success line of "post-it" products. 
 now, in what mrs. medrich call "that wonder american phenomenon where a small idea get institution by the establishment," tradit chocol purveyor are rush to get on the bandwagon.se candi shops, a san francisco-bas chain whose logo is a grandmoth white-hair woman ad a truffl line last year and plan to expand it. 
 but a counter trend may be set in.campbel godiva unit, the brand that start it all, has introduc a more american line. 
 at&t expect that it cost-cut program won't begin produc result until at least next year.chairman jame olson said that vital to the firm growth are long-dist servic and it comput line. 
 the broad claim made by the patent holder in the two current disput have stir criticism."you just don't patent a whole product," say alan shugart, chairman of seagat technology, which has just unveil a line of 3 1/2-inch drive and which freeli trade it patent on specif part of older 5 1/4-inch drives. 
 it declin to elaborate.th maker of medic diagnost test and instrument said the restructur is design to enhanc it posit in the immunodiagnost markets, and to reduc it emphasi on some clinic chemistri product by discontinu certain lines. 
 digit equip corp., as expected, introduc two low-pric comput in it vax line. 
 but longer term, the stripped-down model should "gener more busi for big machines."th model 14se is a single-processor version of the cray x-mp line and come with four million word of memory, equival to about 34,000 kilobytes. 
 some analyst suggest that puma might have been put too much emphasi on mr. becker; his court perform were show sign of be the prime mover in puma stock trade last year.still, puma is gear up it becker campaign this year by instal "bori becker shops" in 1,000 u.s. retail sport stores, featur the complet line of puma tenni and casual wear. 
 sale for u.s. sear store open more than one year grew onli 2.7%.new york-bas j.c. penney co. comparable-stor sale drop 2.4%, in part becaus of it strategi of phase out less profit lines, such as sport goods, said jeffrey edelman, an analyst for drexel burnham lambert inc. 
 digit equip is expect to unveil next week low-cost comput and workstat in it popular vax line. 
 that right, israeli.thi spring, american will get their first tast of a line of 25 gourmet food and beverag product made by sever differ compani in israel but all market under the newli creat brand name betavon. 
 while competitor are impress with the stylish new chevrolet corsica and beretta compacts, gm offici conced that half their sale could come at the expens of other gm compacts.meanwhile, gm won't launch it line of aerodynam midsiz car until the fall. 
 digit equip corp. is expect next week to unveil low-pric comput and workstat in it popular vax line that will make the compani much more competit with other maker of engin computers. 
 she said mani custom who use larger digit system also will buy the low-pric vax comput becaus they can run the same softwar the larger system do.digit said it has schedul a news confer in boston for next tuesday to announc "two new major addit to" it vax line. 
 -- the proton saga.thi malaysian-built compact is to be the second car line import by global motors. 
 most peopl would stay away from it."mr. nordmann also suggest that american home probabl would be better off buy a compani with a stronger prescription-drug line and more patents. 
 trw also said it receiv a record volum of contract award last year.in late 1985, trw began a restructur that involv sell busi -- main aircraft part and industri product -- with annual sale of about $800 million, prune back remain line to their most profit product and a general cost-reduct effort. 
 net for the year rose 57% to $202.5 million, or $4.36 a share.that compar with the prior year $129.1 million, or $2.68 a share, which includ $5.9 million of profit from discontinu line and a $3 million gain from the sale of much of the formica brand product group business. 
 an oscar mayer spokesman said the status of the employe hasn't been determined.cargil accord follow an industri trend in which the big packer are expand into the meat line that are be abandon by less effici operators. 
 ball also said the ventur should have a "posit impact" on futur earnings.th ventur will manufactur ball consum glass products, includ it home canning line, but onli ball will sell them. 
 in composit american stock exchang trading, atari share close at $20.125, up 12.5 cents.industri analyst say the compani strong perform indic it st line of comput is establish itself in the crowd pc marketplace.introduc in 1985, the st machines, which aren't compat with ani other line of pcs, are garner a larg enough user base, analyst said, to induc softwar writer to creat program for the computers. 
 mattel say it has the exclus right to call it toy "slime," and is seek to enjoin hasbro from use the name and an unspecifi amount in punit damages.mattel introduc it self-describ "glop" in 1976, then repack the unctuous matter a few year ago as "slime pit," which it sold as an accessori to it master of the univers line of toys. 
 in addition, debartolo has a seven-year option give it right of first refus on the sale of jordan marsh-new england, the bon, and jordan marsh-florida.thes lines, and the stern depart store chain, would be the onli remain asset of allied, if ann taylor and brook brother were sold. 
 in contrast, domest manufactur have offer a wide varieti of dealer and consum incent over the last sever year to spur sale overal as well as on specif slow-sel models.gener motor corp., ford motor co. and chrysler corp. are current offer custom rebat or low-interest financ on mani car lines. 
 stratus comput inc. introduc a more power line of fault-toler comput design to rapid handl mani transact from distant terminals. 
 stratus comput are use by mani brokerag firm and stock exchang to handl secur quot and custom account data.stratus said the new xa2000 line includ five system with price from $261,000 to $1.1 million. 
 kimberly-clark attribut most of the increas to lower research, advertising, promot and sell expenses.th compani said the 1985 fourth-quart research expens were "abnorm high" becaus of work on a new line of thin, superabsorb huggies-brand diapers, launch in 1986, and other feminin and person care products. 
 the new comput is part of hewlett-packard attempt to refit the intern architectur of it new comput to make them much more powerful.th spectrum line has been under develop for five year at a cost of more than $250 million, in what the compani call the largest project it has ever undertaken. 
 the toledo plant is one of the older oper auto plant in the country, with some of the build date back to the turn of the century.a is the case in wisconsin, amc is seek some help from state govern in financ the toledo project in part becaus it has been incur high cost to start up product of a new line of mid-siz car at a new plant in bramalea, ontario. 
 however, continu strength of the vhs video format and the introduct of vhs-c, a popular compact system back by such major compani as general electr co. rca corp. unit and zenith electron corp., have slow the momentum of 8-mm.kodak deni that it plan to discontinu the line, but some industri analyst indic the move was likely. 
 mr. buckner said eta could produc perhap $60 million in revenu this year, but probabl no profit befor 1989.despit intens competit pressur on the compani mainfram and data-storag product businesses, mr. price said control data intend to retain both lines. 
 comput memori offici couldn't be reach for comment.in july, the compani said it had stop product and had hire invest banker to either sell the compani or acquir other lines. 
 the boe commerci spokesman said that the compani now is concentr on a two-aisle, 150-seat configur for the 7j-7.the propos 100-seat 737 model, be a deriv of the current line of aircraft, could be readi to fli year earlier. 
 buick, oldsmobile, and pontiac announc discount of up to $1,200 on options.thos program last through april 30, and cover about 73% of buick line, 84% of oldsmobile's, and 92% of pontiac's. 
 gm, on the other hand, had too much capacity, which becam a drag on earn last year.ford perform also was fuel by the success of it new taurus and sabl line of midsiz cars. 
 it expand in the u.s. last year by buy canada dri and sunkist drink from rjr nabisco inc. and acquir a 30% stake in close held dr pepper co. ironically, general cinema onc own sunkist but sold it in 1984 to r.j. reynolds, sinc renam rjr nabisco.gener cinema is primarili a pepsi-cola bottler in the u.s. but it also handl dr pepper and sunkist lines. 
 jack nicklaus problem reflect the hazard mani athlet face as they tri to turn their sport career into financi security.th entranc to golden bear headquart in north palm beach is distinctive, adorn with golf club and bags, photo of mr. nicklaus in action, his signatur cloth line and the golfer book (in english, french and japanese). 
 intern busi machin corp. unveil two model in it sierra mainfram line and increas the power of it exist mainframes, while cut price on some of those units. 
 reebok has stay hot by continu expand it product line.although the compani initi depend sole on soft-leath aerob shoe in flashy, pastel colors, it introduc men basketbal shoe in earli 1986, a line of men and women sportswear in the spring and a new line of children nonathlet shoe call weebok last fall. 
 that gave reebok about 15% (unit volume) of the u.s. basketbal shoe market in 1986, make it third after nike inc. and convers inc., accord to smart inc., a market research firm.reebok said, however, that the woman basketbal shoe it introduc in march wasn't as success as the men line. 
 sale of the compani children athlet shoe also rose sharply, as did running-sho sales, despit sluggish in that industry.sal of reebok apparel line -- includ tenni wear, aerob and fit cloth introduc in march -- ad slight more than $40 million to 1986 sales. 
 the diamond star assembl plant in normal, ill., is schedul for complet in the spring of 1988.the compani said it will introduc a new line of passeng car in the 1989 model year. 
 hewlett-packard co., in a bid to boost market share for it redesign line of minicomputers, said it lop 28% off the price of it recent introduc hp 9000 model 840 technic workstations. 
 hewlett-packard said it cut 28% off the price of it recent introduc model 840 technic workstation, an auspici move for it redesign line of minicomputers. 
 but ibm also had some problem that it could have addressed.ibm said sale were disappoint for it midrang comput lines, which have been critic for be incompatible, and it said sale were flat in person computers, where imit have manag to undercut ibm prices. 
 just yesterday, maynard, mass.-bas digit equip corp. announc that it enter the mainfram market with product clear aim at ibm.analyst also say that ibm product to address it problem with it midrang and person comput line won't help until at least the second half, and possibl not until next year. 
 intermed fourth-quart loss from continu oper was $22.1 million, compar with a year-ago loss from continu oper of $13.3 million.for the year, intermed post a loss from continu oper of $17.7 million, compar with a loss from continu line of $19.6 million a year earlier. 
 it hasn't been veri success so far in get order for it telecommun equipment, and last year it lost an import order for telephon switch in japan to northern telecom ltd., the canadian telecommun equip company.separately, at&t said it is cut price between 12% and 17% on it pc 6300 person computers, the second time it has cut price on machin in that line in the last six months. 
 the compani isn't expect to contract for product of ani more unix pcs this year becaus the machin hasn't sold well.sal of the 6300 line also have been below expect recently. 
 johnson, meantime, hasn't been sit by idly.it recent develop two line extens -- a babi condition and condit formula shampoo -- to appeal to older children. 
 minnetonka inc. said it and it west german partner agre to sell the unprofit check-up toothpast line. 
 minnetonka has oper the check-up busi in a joint ventur with henkel corp., the u.s. subsidiari of henkel kgaa, dusseldorf, west germany.minnetonka introduc the check-up line with much fanfar in 1984; it was the first toothpast introduc in the u.s. with a pump. 
 amdahl, a mainfram maker, yesterday report that fourth-quart net incom doubl on a 31% revenu rise.amdahl expect it 1987 revenu to grow more than 15% -- compar with littl or no growth for the overal mainfram market -- becaus of a new line of computers. 
 comput associ has grown rapid by focus on a part of the softwar market call system utilities, which let data process center manag their oper more efficiently.it has also made a seri of acquisit to broaden it line of busi software, ad such product as a spreadsheet and a word processor. 
 anyway, "the standard now exist independ of ibm," suggest rod canion, compaq president.a these compani see it, the ibm pc line of comput is by now so entrench and so much softwar has been written for it, that even if ibm were to stop make comput tomorrow other would pick up the ibm standard. 
 kirk roden, sale manag at the microag store in berkeley, calif., say industri rumor have ibm alter the keyboard, the graphic and perhap the basic oper of the 386 chip, which might requir a differ oper system.ibm might make these proprietari featur hard to duplicate, if onli becaus it has taken a beat from low-pric clone that copi it pc line. 
 the compani new line of high-fiber, low-cholesterol muffins, which were introduc last summer, "look good," said mr. bryan.th muffin are among sever line of new product the compani is test that fit it expans into product that are "conveni and perceiv as be good for you," mr. bryan said.for example, sara lee plan to offer a new line of french bread this spring or summer, he said. 
 but the new line of health-consci product don't mean that sara lee will abandon it sugari cake and rolls; the sweeter product are sell well too, he added.unit volum of sara lee meat lines, includ it jimmi dean sausag and biscuit products, rose 6% in the quarter, "on the low side of the increas we'v been running," said mr. bryan. 
 wang laboratori inc. introduc three minicomput to fill a gap in the middl of it comput line. 
 drew peck, analyst for gartner securities, predict intel will earn $58 million, or 50 cent a share, for the year, on revenu of $1.5 billion.mr. peck said intel should begin see benefit from cost cut made last year, and he expect a strong show from the microprocessor lines. 
 all american budget gourmet brand has within three year captur 13.5% of the $3 billion frozen single-dish market.and it has grab 6.6% of the $1 billion frozen dinner market with a line launch onli last january. 
 the result, he says: "fair easi pickings."budget gourmet has found a nich between campbel expens le menu line and it cheaper but lower-qu swanson tv dinners.new product facil help keep cost down, and all american goe anoth step by skip le menu plastic plate or the boil-in bag use by nestl stouffer line. 
 term weren't disclosed.maytag, which make kitchen applianc and laundri products, said it sold toastmaster, which make small appliances, to focus on it core lines. 
 in troy, mich., a k mart corp. spokesman said toy "r" us cut may affect the no. 2 retailer."you'r certain not go to sit there with higher-pr items," he said of k mart, a major competitor of toy "r" us in toy lines. 
 yet rival amdahl and nation semiconductor are expect to boost shipment of ibm-compat mainfram to a combin 500 machin from onli 100 last year, cut into ibm sale of the multimillion-dollar systems.and ibm new and much-ballyhoo line of midrang systems, where it has been hurt most, won't be ship in big quantiti until the second half. 
 tommi thompson, wisconsin newli elect republican governor, said yesterday that chrysler also would invest an amount that he didn't disclose, if amc begin it renov plan.an amc spokesman said that the auto maker need help from wisconsin to financ the ventur in larg part becaus it has been bear signific cost to get under way product this year of a new line of renault-designed, midsiz car at a new plant in bramalea, ontario. 
 he said he "cautious optimistic" about get legisl approv for the financing.h said jan. 25 is the deadlin for such approv and for amc to convinc state offici that the compani can develop the new jeep line. 
 cooper, a maker of tool and compress and drill equipment, declin to disclos the valu of the transaction.coop said the purchas of sutorbilt corp. and duroflow corp. will complement it line of blowers, air compressor and pumps. 
 what those fan have been watch is the latest video made by a profession sport team: the brown "master of the gridiron."although the team loss to the denver bronco sunday has alreadi hurt sale of the 17-minut film, the video has earn a reput as the strangest product in a line of video that began last year with the chicago bear "super bowl shuffle." 
 new york telephon and it ad agency, young & rubicam inc., have gone the furthest in pitch "brands" of calls.th phone compani say that the ad creator even borrow idea from greet card to compil it extens brand line. 
 bayli corp. said it sign a licens agreement to make and market cheroke group line of men and boy apparel. 
 bayli corp. said it sign a licens agreement to make and market cheroke group line of men and boy apparel.jam argyropoulos, chairman and chief execut offic of north hollywood, calif.-bas cherokee, said bayli will pay his compani a 5% royalti on net sale of the line. 
 more recently, sever other lead tire produc also have narrow their activities.a a result of a takeov effort by sir jame goldsmith, the anglo-french financier, industri leader goodyear tire & rubber co. is sell aerospace, wheel manufacturing, real estat and energi lines. 
 among it firsts: low-fat milk, introduc in britain in 1981.sainsburi isn't alone; retail mark & spencer plc st. michael brand may be britain most popular label, adorn food, clothing, bed and a new line of classic recordings. 
 whittak corp. said it complet the sale of it health mainten organ line to travel corp. for a total of $48 million. 
 west point-pepperel said cluett, peabodi & co., an apparel concern acquir in januari 1986, contribut $193 million to sale and $2.9 million to net income.cluett contribut came primarili from it shirt and hosieri group, while perform in other line -- includ tailor cloth and children wear -- was less robust reflect softer retail demand. 
 as with other type of liabil insurance, an extend price war among writer of coverag for director and offic help to make the busi unprofit over the past few years.and even more than in other lines, claim balloon far beyond expectations. 
 also, the compani will launch a number of major new product or push exist product into new markets, he said.th stouffer food unit recent introduc a line of frozen complet dinner under the name dinner supreme.previously, stouffer food offer mani entrees, includ the lean cuisin low-calori line, but didn't have complet dinners. 
 the divis is plan to add fender extens and make other style chang on the 1988 model of the eldorado; the chang are intend to make the car look less like relat buick and oldsmobil models.yesterday action will give gm "more distinct between car lines," mr. hoglund said. 
 a closer look at luken illustr differ as well as similar with big steel.a medium-s specialti steelmaker, luken has carv out a modest profit nich churn out an expans line of a singl product-steel plate -- in addit to some product for the electr equip and construct markets. 
 mr. smith said that "deliv high qualiti products" eventu would prove to wall street and the public that "what we did was right."at his news conference, mr. smith also was pepper with question from local report about whether the wisconsin invest board stanc regard the perot affair would affect whether gm commit to produc a new line of pickup truck at the compani janesville, wis., facility. 
 those stakes, ibm said yesterday, have been sold back to the compani shareholders; ibm wouldn't elaborate.ibm said it form the instrument unit in 1980 as a way to sell comput to analyt laboratories, but later found comput sale fare well without have to sell the instrument line. 
 these smaller retail are adept at exploit the new consum nich becaus they offer depth in a narrow rang of products, such as toy or appliances.mani general merchandis -- mobil corp. montgomeri ward & co. and j.c. penney co., for exampl -- have respond by drop some product to concentr on fewer lines. 
 the amount wasn't disclosed.augat disclos it recent purchas the complet modular connector line of compagni teletechniqu modern s.a. of paris. 
 in the first nine month of 1986, the divis had oper profit of $43.3 million on sale of $522 million.much of that improv profit pictur was becaus of the compani success with it dekuyp schnapp line. 
 ncr corp. plan to unveil today a line of comput system for retail that incorpor recent advanc in design intend to prevent system failures. 
 great atlant & pacif tea co. 300 super fresh food markets, which trim wage but gave worker some say in run store and bonus when sale revenu increase, are "the most success part of our company," say a&p vice presid michael rourke.a&p recent convert store to the super fresh line in minnesota, maryland, virginia and washington, d.c. 
 trico said that upon sign of a definit agreement, it will withdraw the "poison pill" sharehold right plan it adopt last month.a paccar spokesman said the compani think trico oper will make "a good fit" with the compani current lines. 
 valtek, base in springville, utah, manufactur automat control valv and valv actuat for the chemic process industry.thes product complement duriron line of valves, pump and filtrat equipment. 
 esquir magazin group remain unit, the press and video division, was acquir by a group of shareholders, includ it management.th divis publish book and produc a line of how-to videocassettes. 
 a few will be wild success -- but far more will fail."commerci toy compani might introduc a total of about 40 line a year," say henri orenstein, the owner of toy builders, which develop toy idea and advis toy makers. 
 "at least 25% of the rest will be flops."cryst starr is the central charact in a line of doll call "moondreamers," which hasbro has spent two year developing. 
 the illustr suggest a cast of charact call "moon beamers," who live in "starri up" and send dream full of fun and adventur to children on earth.a line of mini-dol charact is hard unique.kenn parker toy strawberri shortcak and similar line sold by rival toy compani have been around for sever years. 
 the toy maker also decid to aim the doll at littl girls; thus, all but one of the origin stori male charact were chang to females."you don't sell (a line of) littl boy to girls," explain roseann radosevich, design director for doll at hasbro. (but bucki buckaroo, a space cowboy, remain male to add an element of romance.) 
 from start to finish, the costum took eight month to complet in bulk.finally, confid it had a winner after near a year of development, hasbro gave a sneak preview of the five-dol line to four top toy retail in septemb 1985. 
 encouraged, hasbro market and design went back to the draw board.they enlarg the line to nine doll to give it more variety. 
 about 59,200 fewer share were outstand in fiscal 1986.the 1986 result reflect signific declin in sale of wood finish and mainten and marin coatings, but a "strong performance" by the coat line valspar acquir from mobil corp. in 1984, mr. wurtel said. 
 beatric cos. purchas ozarka in texas, arrowhead in california and great bear in the northeast and now is the nation largest bottl water company.and mckesson corp., the nation second-largest water bottler, is consid ad a sparkl water to it still water lines. 
 tonka corp. said hasbro inc. has drop it suit challeng tonka new supernatur holograph toys.a previous reported, pawtucket, r.i.-bas hasbro, a toy and game maker, and new york-bas abrams/gentil entertain inc., accus tonka of misappropri inform about a "secret" concept for a toy line. 
 for example, although hasbro, the biggest toy maker, also market board game and other "gender-neutral" items, it organ it biggest seller strict along sex-rol lines.it wholesal catalog featur a girl toy line that includ real babi and get in shape, girl! exercis kits.th boy toy line includ transform and inhumanoid -- small, hard-plast charact that in a dollhous might be consid doll but in an imaginari war zone are known as "action figures." 
 moreover, the fed said that even if such commerci paper activ were cover by the glass-steagal act, bank wouldn't be consid to be violat the law, which prohibit them from be "engag principally" in underwrit securities, so long as they follow certain guidelines.th guidelines, spell out in the fed decision, are design to ensur that the secur activ are "on an insubstanti line of activity." 
 creativ black book publish a directori of creativ servic use primarili by art director in advertis agenc and by televis producers.macmillan, which is involv in educ publish and inform services, said it purchas the directori to extend "the line of inform product target to the advertis industry." 
 a seagram spokesman said, "we don't comment on rumors."th compani is said to be interest in sell certain of it domest brands, which includ taylor california cellars, taylor wine co. of new york, paul masson, gold seal vineyards, the monterey vineyard line and sterl vineyards. 
 caesar world inc. is bet it has a nose for upscal fragrances.th hotel and casino oper said it merchandis subsidiari has retain roth/horn & associates, a bever hills, calif., concern that design and market the success giorgio perfum line, to develop a new line of men and women fragrances. 
 mr. sobel said these products, to appear on the market in the next eight months, will initi be sold at retail shop at the compani seven resorts, and then by direct mail.caesar said it hope eventu to have a complet line of toiletries, includ soaps, shampoo and other products. 
 not all manufactur are reli on product improv to strengthen their positions.park manufactur corp., for one, is ad a flashier, "high-fashion" look to it tradit line of conserv style costum jewelry. 
 rubbermaid inc. said it agre with analyst project that it will earn 95 cent a share to 96 cent a share in 1986, compar with 79 cent a share last year.last year, the maker of household and commerci products, toy and other line earn $57.1 million on sale of $671.4 million. 
 he said that analyst project that the compani was purchas for $30 million are "in the ballpark."however, he say he expect 30% of sale each year will come from new product -- defin as product develop intern that weren't part of rubbermaid line five year earlier, and not includ line extensions, which mere modifi style or design. 
 among the new product rubbermaid is introduc are modular home offic products, just now be shipped, and mold outdoor furniture, under the new brand name sundial, which will be introduc in earli 1987.mr. gault said order for both line are "veri encouraging." 
 mr. gault said order for both line are "veri encouraging."rubbermaid is in the process of expand it intern busi beyond the housewar line that now make up the bulk of it and it is move into new territories. 
 "the onli way to go is up."recently, lister butler design a paper bag decor with an "aristocratic" ribbon and gold coat of arm to launch a line of delux candi from nestle. 
 "the premium segment belong more to pepperidg farm."awar of such pitfalls, market are close monitor consum reaction to expens line extensions. 
 in year end june 30, lear earn $55.5 million, or $3.02 a share, compar with $100.7 million, or $5.51 a share, the year earlier.sal rose to $2.46 billion from $2.37 billion, but the compani aerospac busi and it piper aircraft business-plan line perform poorly. 
 the unit prosper last year from the now-past fad for safari cloth and accessories.oth wonder whether gap, which enjoy a startl turnaround two year ago after hire market expert millard s. drexler, may have made a misstep when it recent move away from some of the line that brought it out of obscurity. 
 the complaint alleg that guin forc renfield to be acquir by mr. riklis, who control schenley.th suit say guin did this to pay mr. rik back for his purport assist dure guin 1986 takeov of distil co. accord to the suit, mr. rik was abl to buy renfield "at a price far less than it fair market value" becaus guin alleg had alreadi promis to switch the u.s. distributorship of it gordon gin and vodka line to schenley from renfield. 
 the drug also is be test for it possibl benefit in treat gum disease.upjohn is also test a new line of drug call lazaroids, which in anim test appear to slow deterior of tissu surround a traumat wound. 
 mr. max, who onc design costum for the soviet union kirov ballet, attend design school in new york and work for tahari ltd., a new york designer, befor move to los angeles.hi lines, which includ short skirt and dress and jacket ensembl in soft knits, are now in mani major depart stores. 
 a similar stori is be play out in san francisco.four year ago, david weinstein, now 39, launch a line of simple, loose-fitting, casual cotton cloth call cp shades.th line is now in 30 depart store across the country, and wholesal revenu was $40 million in 1986. 
 mr. weinstein got his start in the apparel busi 15 year ago by open a store call fresh pants, also in san francisco.h sold dy t-shirts, sweat shirt and painter pants, but problem with qualiti eventu convinc him that he should design and manufactur his own line of clothing. 
 some compani say their sale might be higher if they were in new york.san francisco-born eletra casadei, 34, design even dresses, sportswear and a line of parti gown call td4 ("to die for"), which are inspir by rock videos. 
 but gap apparel hasn't been sell to the older crowd as well as it has in the past.and in deemphas it teen-ag customers, gap didn't promot it back-to-school line as heavili as it usual has, hurt august sales. 
 i imagin a tough decis like this from the itc will remind them of the sensit of this issu in the u.s."th import ban cover samsung line of dynam random access memori chips, known as drams, as well as computers, facsimil machin and certain telecommun equip and printer if they contain chip that infring texa instrument patents. 
 a feder judge, bare mask his mirth, dismiss a copyright-infring and unjust-enrich suit brought by two toy-anim design against hasbro inc. and walt disney co.th suit, file by joann bloom and rene scelia, alleg that the "wuzzles" toy line introduc by hasbro and disney in 1985 infring on their charact call "whats." 
 consid dean knockoff of the popsicl produc by gold bond ice cream co. of green bay, wis.when other compani brought out a private-label popsicl line, supermarket ask dean for anoth version. 
 ohio art co. said it will stop distribut britain petit ltd. line of typewriters, sew machines, cash regist and other toys, effect jan. 1. 
 last year, petit toy repres about 9% of ohio art $47.4 million in sales.th bryan, ohio, maker of toy and the etch a sketch draw devic said petite, a unit kingdom toy maker, plan to handl the distribut and market of it own line, begin next year. 
 brockway had previous been the no. 2 producer.owens-illinoi had been diversifi in recent year but, face with a threat to it major line, it becam determin to expand in glass containers, sourc said. 
 ford motor co. announc tentat base-pric increases, mani of them in the 4%-to-6% range, on the 1988 model it current ship to dealers.th price increas cover near 70% of the compani car lines, and a spokesman said the auto maker will announc price on the remain product in the next few months. 
 chemic has a major acquisit pend of horizon bancorp., new jersey fifth-largest bank hold company.bi decid to sell it cleveland-bas chemic financi servic corp. unit, chemic is signal it desir to have a full-servic retail bank presenc in the region where it doe business, not mere one line of service, analyst said. 
 in 1987, it expect to sell 750,000 vehicl here compar with 550,000 in japan.honda is forecast that about 100,000 of those u.s. sale will be from it acura division, up from 52,869 in 1986 when it introduc the luxuri line. 
 the u.s. unit of soni corp. of japan introduc a line of portabl audio product design for children. 
 the compani sold 184,378 car in the u.s. in the first eight month of this year.hyundai introduc it line, all version of a subcompact call the excel, in the u.s. in februari 1986. 
 a strike in canada could hamper product becaus the compani u.s. plant depend on part and assembl work done at canadian facilities.chrysl has schedul overtim at it st. loui no. 2 plant, which build the compani popular minivan models, and at it kenosha no. 1 plant in wisconsin, which build the dodg diplomat, plymouth gran furi and the luxuri fifth avenu lines. 
 houdaill made machin tools, larg order by manufactur late in the year.but like mani other big board-list concerns, houdaill eventu diversifi it lines. 
 "we begin to get order each year in the spring," assert a rauch official.profession trader move in to buy the share in february, if they hear good report of the new christma line display at trade shows. 
 they includ sever type of missiles, and, not coincidentally, japan now is focus it defens research on develop it own missil -- potenti competitor to the u.s.-mad stinger, sidewind and harpoon.u.s. trade offici say japan has gone a step further, use technolog bought in connect with u.s. arm purchas to broaden it line of commerci aircraft. 
 it main defens product are radar and heat-seek missil decoy and communic system for anti-submarin warfare.it commerci line includ electron microscop and fuse for industri and electron products. 
 togeth they provid the function of ibm new ps/2 model 30, mr. campbel said.mr. campbel expect that chip & technolog will come out with chip set mimick the capabl of other, higher-perform model in ibm ps/2 line "bi the end of the year." 
 the first machin is design for multipl simultan user via separ termin in an offic network, the second for use by a few scientist or engineers.th new microvax model are like to provid strong competit for ibm 9370 line introduc last year -- and intern identifi as the "vax-killer." 
 kenneth olsen, presid of digital, play down the ibm challeng saying, "we never thought they need an answer."however, other digit execut said the new product work as fast as a midrang 9370 but are price below the bottom of the ibm line. 
 it lost near $50 million over the past four years, and it market valu was decimated.in january, as activis struggl to rebound with a new line of pc software, mr. levi left his post as chairman amid a fall out with the compani board. 
 the price of workstat introduc by digit equip yesterday wasn't as aggress as some analyst had anticipated, mean less competit for apollo and sun products.digit new microvax is seen as a challeng to intern busi machin 9370 line. 
 tokheim sank 3 1/8 to 27 after the compani said earn for it third quarter, end aug. 31, were probabl below analyst project of between $2.6 million and $3.3 million, or 40 cent to 50 cent a share.offici cite slower-than-expect accept of a new line of it fuel dispensers, note that august sale and earn were particular below expectations. 
 mr. ostrand "has complet knowledg of ari confidenti plan for develop the market for the comfort slipper," as well as "those supplier ari has discov to be the most effici and reliable," the compani contend in it suit.ari also contend that r.g. barri recent introduc a line of foot soother slipper that are "a direct copy" of it comfort slipper. 
 the compani most infam recal also was fire related: the 1978 recal of 1.7 million ford pinto and mercuri bobcat was to repair a defect that caus fire when gas tank ruptur in rear-end collisions.th fuel-lin recal affect some of ford biggest-sel lines: the ford taurus and mercuri sabl midsiz cars, the compact ford escort, the ford f-seri and ranger pickup trucks, and the lincoln continent and town car. 
 claud p. mancel, former on a special assign at the technic center, was name manager, research and development, at the center, succeed mr. booth.thoma a. moore, former general manag of the vidal sassoon hair-product line, was name manager, health and person care product division, succeed mr. lieppe.karen l. hendricks, former associ director, product development, health and person care product division, was name general manag of the vidal sassoon line. 
 in the 1986 fourth quarter, du pont canada, 73%-own by du pont co. of wilmington, del., earn 28.2 million dollars, or 88 cent a share, after a 13.8 million-dollar gain from the sale of a business.du pont and it canadian unit have agre to sell the explos line to cic canadian invest capit ltd., a toronto financi invest and hold company. 
 today, two west german publish want to re-creat baedek past glories.volkmar mair, owner of a stuttgart publish house, and florian langenscheidt, scion of a munich publish empire, recent agre to merg their various right to the baedek name in hope of engin a major comeback for the vener guidebook line. 
 guid in italian and hebrew are on the way.in the u.s., distributor simon & schuster inc. say baedek is it second bestsel line after arthur frommer guidebooks. 
 the invest group was led by leach mcmick & co., a san francisco invest bank firm.th sale is part of alli continu program to concentr on it aerospace, automot product and engin materi lines, a spokesman said. 
 some dealer and market analyst fear the boom may wane becaus current owner are start to have families, and thus are look for bigger vehicles.both gm and ford motor co., which make the bronco line, will address that problem by introduc four-door compact by 1991. 
 mannesmann said group profit also declin in the half, but it didn't provid figures.th compani cite sluggish demand for capit good in west germany, continu loss in it steelpip line and deterior condit at it big brazilian unit. 
 while the compani so domin the field that it routin can pick and choos from the best comput engin and technicians, mr. chen exit will sting.cray bestsel x-mp line was primarili a chen product. 
 he appar "pull an esmark" again.som of mr. kelli doubters, includ a few beatric executives, worri that he would be forc to part first with the compani crown jewels, it domest food lines, at fire-sal price to meet borrow agreements. 
 american home product corp., seek to shore up it contraceptive-product line in the face of generic competition, agre to acquir vli corp. for $7 a share, or about $86 million. 
 woolworth has sever specialti footwear unit includ the foot locker, ladi foot locker, and the athlet shoe factory.mr. bryant said client have also ask him whether some apparel compani might have korea-rel problem because, for example, they might have arrang to produc an entir line in that country. 
 rick anguilla, editor of toy and hobbi world, said korean contractor make mani of the "plush" categori of toys, such as stuf animals.toy compani with big "plush" line includ hasbro, russ berrie, coleco, viewmast ideal group and tonka.coleco has a hot toy base on the "alf" tv show, viewmast has a new line of "michael jackson pets," and tonka sell "pound puppies," mr. anguilla noted. 
 those two account for "a fair minor percentage" of sale and, in ani case, are "run full steam, no problems," the spokesman added.limit inc., a high-growth specialti retail known for design and subcontract it own apparel lines, has been tri to boost the number of it u.s. contractor in respons to the fall dollar and rise import restrictions. 
 american home plan to buy vli, a maker of contracept products, in an attempt to bolster it line in the face of generic competition. 
 but it'll let them establish beachhead in some dec and ibm accounts."th unisi sourc said the machines, to be call the a1, the a4 and the a6, will be market against the model 20, 40 and 60 respect of ibm new 9370 line, join the competit for small-busi account and for sale to depart in larg companies. 
 but digit also has come up with techniqu of it own.decworld came about becaus of concern that salespeopl didn't know how extens the compani comput line was. 
 accord to those familiar with the 6386 machine, it will be abl to run applic program that use the unix oper system, develop by at&t, concurr with softwar run on ms-dos, the microsoft corp. oper system popular by intern busi machin corp.th new system will also run softwar base on the new os/2 oper standard for ibm new line of person computers. 
 accordingly, unilev recent paid $3.1 billion for chesebrough-pond inc. -- the largest acquisit in it histori -- in hope that a home-grown american compani would help restor it stand in the u.s. personal-product business.chesebrough-pond doubl the size of unilev u.s. personal-product line to $700 million in annual sales. 
 unilev is still someth of a trendsett in europe.for european who are switch from perfum to deodorant, unilev develop a new line of strong-smel "deo-cologne" sprays. 
 in addit to stroke customers, digit is expect to introduc sever new, low-end product that are three time more power than their predecessor but won't cost digit ani more to build.and it will reinforc it messag that it line of vax comput all run the same softwar and can easili communic as a result. 
 earli this year, analyst fear that intern busi machin increas competit could blunt digit success.ibm introduc it 9370 line of computers, which was intern dub "the vax killer," and it start promis improv comput communic and low price department comput -- the same attribut that digit boasts. 
 moreover, digit has continu to sell equip in financi and insur market that were tradit ibm bailiwick.mr. schulman say product introduc at decworld will give digit an opportun to counterattack against the 9370 line. 
 proceed to the compani will be use for payment of bank debt, work capital, plant and equip expenditur and other general purposes.bas in conshohocken, pa., the compani make and servic a line of medic ultrasound equipment. 
 mr. gidwitz estim sale for the quarter, end may 31, rose 15% from $86.8 million a year earlier.h ad that cost involv in promot the new helen curti salon select line are like to caus a second-quart loss. 
 sourc put the price at $125 million to $150 million.at the same time, revlon agre to sell bain de soleil, one of the acquir lines, to cincinnati-bas procter & gambl co. richardson-vick subsidiary. 
 the compani involv declin to disclos price on the transactions, which have been rumor for some time.revlon purchas includ the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff cosmet lines, sold in depart stores; mass-market line as such as jean nate and enjoli, and dynasti fragrances. 
 revlon purchas includ the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff cosmet lines, sold in depart stores; mass-market line as such as jean nate and enjoli, and dynasti fragrances.revlon vice chairman howard gitti said bain de soleil, a sun-car line, would be sold becaus "we are develop our own sun-car lines, begin with ultima ii. 
 schering-plough corp. copperton has about 30% of the market while bain de soleil has about 15%.other richardson-vick line includ the vick brands, sinex and oil of olay. 
 he veri persistent."mr. perelman has argu that combin revlon cosmet product with gillett personal-car and razor line would creat one of the world most formid consumer-product companies. 
 they hope the new offer will help lure busi peopl with more than mundan tast in food back to the supermarket."thi is for consum who are too tire to cook and too tire to go out -- or who have no time for either -- but still want a nice dinner," say richard g. powers, the busi unit manag of general food premium culinova line. 
 he figur that a sara lee refriger dinner for two, includ a side dish and dessert, would run about $14.and sara lee line is among the least expensive. 
 for manufacturers, the biggest challeng is cope with the short shelf life of refriger products."no nation food processor yet has introduc a success line of new refriger entre and a lot of money has been spent," say john luther, a market corpor of america official.last month, in fact, campbel soup withdrew it fresh chef line of refriger soups, sauc and salad from nation distribution. 
 anoth is what he term a "sell-out strategy," make sure product are sold by a certain date through coupon and other inducements.(us the lesson learn from fresh chef and an earlier group of refriger entre that never emerg from test market, campbel say it now is test a new line of refriger entre and side dishes). 
 to prolong shelf life of their products, some manufactur have resort to novel strategies.sara lee emmber brand is roll out a complet refriger line call tonight choice. 
 so, manhattan toy, with $5 million in annual sales, has su the $1 billion gerber product co., alleg gerber has infring manhattan toy copyrights.aft his compani began sell it dinosaur in 1984 through retail such as neiman marcus, bloomingdal and f.a.o. schwarz, mr. goldwyn says, gerber launch a line of inexpens imitations. 
 last month, the close held american natur beverag corp. of new york got anheuser-busch cos. of st. loui to chang the logo on it zeltzer seltzer soft drink, which american natur claim was "confus similar" to packag for it soho natur soda.and last november, blue mountain art inc. of boulder, colo., won an injunct bar hallmark card inc. of kansa city, mo., from distribut a line of greet card blue mountain alleg were copi from it designs. 
 as a result, mr. jager says, "a small busi can look at a situat and say, not onli is the climat more favor for me to take on a big infringer, but the chanc for a higher return are greater than they use to be.'"in it suit, manhattan toy doesn't ask for specif damages, onli an amount equal to the profit gerber has made on it dinosaur line. 
 at beecham, he had been respons for market such consum brand as aqua-fresh toothpaste, sucret throat lozeng and calgon bath products.quak state, maker of the nation best-sel motor oil, turn to mr. snell in an effort to coordin market of an unwieldi 6,000 product cut across 12 compani lines. 
 neither compani would confirm or deni mount specul that revlon, the close held cosmet giant, would pay $150 million or more in the transaction.it is understood that the purchas may includ the charl of the ritz and alexandra de markoff brands, consid prestig cosmet lines, as well as mass-market line such as bain de soleil, jean nate, enjoli and the dynasti fragrances. 
 sinc mr. perelman acquir control of revlon in novemb 1985, he has shed most of the compani health care divis while seek to bolster the beauti business.last decemb he purchas max factor inc., which includ the halston and almay lines, for $345 million. 
 earlier this year he bought the u.s. busi of germain monteil cosmetiqu corp. for about $10 million from beecham group plc, the london-bas pharmaceut concern.lin includ dian von furstenberg fragranc and lancast skincar products. 
 in the year-earli quarter, the maker of personal-groom product earn $1.1 million, or 18 cent a share, on sale of $30.9 million.th compani said the earn declin result chiefli from lower-than-expect volum for it consum product divis new textra line of care products. 
 sinc be taken privat in april 1986 in a $6.2 billion leverag buyout, beatric has rapid reduc it debt by sell various units.last month, it said it plan an initi public offer for it remain non-food busi and some of it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 kid stuff: retail expand to cash in on demograph trends.gymbore corp., a $10 million-a-year busi built on tot exercis classes, launch a chain of store with it own line of cloth and toys; 15 store are to be open by year end.conran's, new york, expand it children furnitur lines, while carter hawley hale broadway chain upgrad it offer to includ babi dior, esprit and guess clothes. 
 the factori of the futur turn out a new line of midsiz car for general motor corp. this fall won't be so futurist after all. 
 in addition, the fiscal stimulus from the reagan presid record budget deficit has forc the fed to maintain a firmer polici than it might otherwis have done.meanwhile, increas foreign competition, domest deregulation, and the wave of merger and consolid sweep corpor america have push compani to lay off workers, shed unprofit lines, adopt closer relationship with supplier and tighten control over inventories. 
 fra program manag the data base of a museum members, donors, and prospect donors, as well as generat standard paperwork such as membership-renew remind and year-end report for donor for tax purposes.th american feder of the arts, an associ of art museums, has been work with a softwar consultant, the williamson group, for sever year and offer a line of softwar design especi for art museums. 
 today wardrob for mani men is tripl layered: suit for work, activewear for sport and trendi sport coats, shirt and slack for entertaining.and it the two leisur line that have surg sales. 
 despit the strength of sportswear in the $27 billion menswear market, manufactur and retail see consider room for growth.design such as ralph lauren, calvin klein and liz claiborne, who introduc a new sportswear line for men two year ago, are avid seek the new male customer. 
 design and retailers, of course, still count on women, who long have purchas at least half of all men clothing.liz claiborne, calvin klein and other are bet that femal customers, loyal to their womenswear lines, will also buy their new menswear line for husband and others. 
 for the current fiscal year, mr. o'reilli said analyst estim net of $2.85 a share "seem reasonable."th execut said the fiscal 1987 market budget of about $383 million will be increas by about 15% in fiscal 1988, with most of the spend to be on such line as weight watchers, chico-san rice cakes, yogurt and near east food -- a maker of flavor rice products. 
 they'r packag it as the don kelli portfolio instead of as an ongo company."e-ii will includ the non-food busi bci hasn't alreadi sold plus some smaller specialty-food lines. 
 montgomeri ward & co. 2.5% rise in same-stor sale was the slowest growth rate for the mobil corp. unit sinc fall.sal were hurt by the chain recent move out of the hardwar and the lawn and garden lines, which typic are big seller in may. 
 digit equip corp. and cray research inc., as expected, said they will joint market and develop product to link their line of computers. 
 the compani has said it intend to emphas it fragranc business.it has cut price on some cosmet line 50% and may sell the lines. 
 nevertheless, the compani call the five busi to be sold "sound businesses" that are experienc an earn improv "with the upturn in the electron market."th announc follow a major restructur program trw began in late 1985 that involv sell busi -- main aircraft part and industri product -- with annual sale of about $800 million, prune back remain line to their most profit product and a general cost-reduct effort. 
 still, troubl continu to be more common than triumph for compani test video catalog -- even when the video itself is well done.murjani intern ltd. test a video catalog last year for it coca-cola cloth line. 
 glenview, ill.-bas kraft long has want to expand in frozen foods, the fastest-grow packaged-food area right now.th compani tri a line of frozen-chees dinner that it quiet fold last year. 
 besid the all american gourmet acquisition, kraft is tri again internally.it current is test a line of frozen entre that includ lasagna and sever meat dishes. 
 the acquisit would be kraft fourth in the frozen-food busi in the past three years.and last week it agre to acquir sever of chicago-bas quaker oat co. food line for $235 million. 
 he also said the compani is consid action to reduc interest and dividend expens start in the second half.mattel has said that substanti lower domest demand start last year for it master of the univers and rainbow brite line of toy are among the main factor troubl the company. 
 in mr. welch view, consum electron main job is to give ge greater buy clout for it other busi in the pacif rim by ad to the volum of compon purchas there.despit the fact that mr. welch regard consum electron as someth of an albatross, secur analyst say that even if ge eventu exit tv-set manufacturing, it will continu to market consum electron becaus of the valuabl ge brand recognit that benefit more profit consum lines, such as light bulb and major appliances. 
 he has primarili focus the busi on the side of the softwar market call system utilities, which allow data-process center to manag their oper more efficiently.comput associ also has broaden it line of busi software, which now includ spreadsheet and word-processor programs. 
 mattel will introduc captain power in septemb in 86 u.s. televis market and 17 foreign countries.th spokesman said mattel is be "veri cautious" about not repeat mistak it made sever year ago when it intellivis game machin line and other electron product encount an extrem competit environ and creat huge loss for the company. 
 "that experi is memorable," the spokesman said, ad that the new line are less involv with educ electron and more toy and game related.thoma r. kully, a secur analyst with the chicago firm of william blair & co., said he didn't believ mattel would make the same error made with the now-discontinu intellivis line. 
 the xerox copier, for example, is now part of an integr office-inform system that process document from creation to transmission, includ storag and retriev as well as reproduction.no compani can cover the complet line competit without help from other companies. 
 the jury, in feder court in illinois, award the damag to georgia roulo, a former licensor of the toy, trinket and greet card firm.ms. roulo su russ berri in 1982, contend that the compani line of "touch you" greet card infring on the "feel sensitive" card she design for russ berri to sell from 1978 through 1980. 
 in do so, yves saint laurent regain control of the perfum that bear it name.revillon, the fur-coat maker in the cora group, took over karl lagerfeld kl label to launch an up-market ready-to-wear line of women clothing. 
 just this month, the famili that run martel & cie. agre to sell control of the cognac compani to seagram co. of canada.although industri analyst say a recess would hurt lesser-known brand and expens item such as cars, fur and jewelry, most french luxury-good compani don't expect demand for their most prestigi line to be affected. 
 "as long as i'm around," mr. schneider vows, "we won't go on the stock market."and mr. schneider also want to prevent the davidoff line of cigar from becom mass consum items. 
 susi peterson, an analyst with first boston corp., recent said that computervis was among the compani that prime might tri to acquire, though she thought other candid were more likely.prime, which had net incom of $46.9 million, or 97 cent a share, and revenu of $860.2 million last year, is among the smallest comput compani that make a broad line of comput systems. 
 tele-communications, a cabl televis concern, acquir heritag communic in august and immedi sold the broadcast properties.heritag also said in octob that it had retain first boston corp. to help shed the communications-product lines. 
 then some japanes chocol technician reverse-engin the m&m.lott k.k., a lead confectionari compani in japan, came out in april with a line of "new-typ chocolate" that look suspici like the mar product. 
 panason co. is a divis of it american subsidiary.along with make the kodak batteries, the new compani will make a separate, compet line of consum alkalin batteri to be market under the panason brand name. 
 the plant, which may be locat in the sunbelt, is expect to produc sever hundr million batteri a year begin in 1989.kodak enter the batteri market last year with two line of batteries: it alkalin supralif batteri made accord to kodak specif by matsushita in japan and it 9-volt lithium batteri made by kodak ultra technolog unit in newark, n.y. 
 wow said it will continu to develop new toys, and will unveil it 1988 product at the new york toy fair in february.th spokeswoman wouldn't discuss the plan products, but said wow plan to broaden it line by offer more lower-pr toys. 
 this year, grey work for revlon was larg limit to a singl televis advertis for flex, a hair care product.grey had been assign to work on an ad campaign for a new hair care line that revlon plan to introduc next year. 
 the move reflect american home longstand strategi of rapid growth.bi acquir robins, american home would add strong consum brand to it own healthi over-the-count line and beef up it proprietari drug research, which has been barren in recent years. 
 sale of the regal -- the first of the so-cal "gm-10" car -- more than doubl to 2,898 from a year earlier.that an earli indic of how well custom are receiv the new line of midsized, front-wheel-dr car that gm hope will help revers it market share decline. 
 altern card -- now the industri hottest seller and still grow -- repres between 17% and 22% of all card sold.th big three are make their gain in the altern card market larg at the expens of tini competitors, who were success earli on in offer such lines. 
 the altern card appeal larg to babi boomers; the compani say mani young adult enjoy send humor card to friend for no particular occas or holiday, but just to stay in touch.mani of the altern line also are gear toward women, who buy 90% of all cards.gibson, for example, offer a line call women writes. 
 of the major companies, hallmark generat the most controversi with it alternative-card entry.in the largest rollout of new card in the compani history, it brought out the "shoebox" line, aim main at women, and "person touch," a line of sentiment cards. 
 "we'r not ad a lot of mouth to feed," say paul shain, an analyst at dain bosworth inc.h say those battl for "share of stomach" includ salad bars, in-stor delicatessen and a buffet line of home-deliveri food services. 
 "the past few month have been a difficult period for the company," mr. kingsborough said."nonetheless, we are encourag by retail and consum reaction to both our continu line and to the new product we introduc for this christma season. 
 group execut are expect to identifi competitor that simon & schuster can acquir to broaden it market share.sinc april, for example, the compani bought two more document search firms, a line of train materi for comput softwar and a british profession publisher. 
 robin profit over-the-count brand would be the primari attract for ani acquirer.analyst estim that the consum line account for almost 50% of robin sale and possibl as much as 60% of profit. 
 the agreement is subject to regulatori and financ approvals.executone, base in norcross, ga., market and servic a line of busi telephon systems. 
 expert estim the purchas price at one billion markka ($248.5 million).th transact includ sel television-tub and loudspeak lines, the compani said. 
 chrysler acquisit last summer of american motor corp. also contribut to the chang in plan for jefferson avenue, a compani spokesman said.originally, chrysler plan to replac the current k-car line at jefferson with anoth model, and later shift the plant to light truck production, the spokesman said. 
 those are dictat by the compani buyers, who also adjust their plan as the season progresses.th day after thanksgiving, for instance, the buyer order an emerg markdown of 40% on a line of women sportswear. 
 pennwalt corp. said it acquir a line of fungicides, insecticid and herbicid and their relat manufactur and distribut facil from le raffineri de soufr reunies, marseille, france. 
 essex also plan to sell it baltimor phosgen chemic plant; the spokesman said the compani hasn't yet found a buyer.essex also said it plan to sell write off or write down certain ventur capit lines. 
 richard laster, dna presid and chief execut officer, attribut most of the 1987 loss to a decis this year by kraft inc., glenview, ill., to withdraw from a nation product launch.dna is negoti with two or three parti for a partnership to replac kraft for the market of it vegisnax line of special bred carrot and celery. 
 digit is like to promot it for compani that link mani comput user to a central database, one of the fastest grow applic for big computers.th announc of a more power mainfram comput in digit vax line, has been wide expected, but maynard, mass.-bas digit hadn't given ani detail until william demmer, a vice president, mention it last week at a user group meet in california. 
 the u.s. estim that the four airbus countri have pour $10 billion into the consortium sinc it was start 17 year ago.washington say they are plan to spend an addit $3.2 billion on two new aircraft line airbus plan to produce. 
 man and hoesch ad 2.50 each to 129 and 97.50, respectively.but kloeckner humboldt-deutz, reel from heavi loss in it agricultur machineri lines, fell 2 to 79. 
 in composit trade on the new york stock exchange, mattel close yesterday at $7.875 a share, up 25 cents.a mattel spokesman said the compani was concern about the lacklust u.s. sale of most product except the "barbie" doll line. 
 alfr h. hunt iii, presid of ifr system inc., a wichita, kan.-bas produc of test equip that is 84% own by regency, was name to fill mr. boon vacanc on the board.th compani said it intend to sell it consum product line so it can concentr on busi that provid the most potenti for "long-term growth and profitability." 
 the compani said it intend to sell it consum product line so it can concentr on busi that provid the most potenti for "long-term growth and profitability."reg said it will tri to sell it line of scanners, inform radio products, and marin radios, which togeth generat about 24% of the compani $75 million in sale for the fiscal year end june 30. 
 the compani will begin share model by late 1989 at the earliest but will sell car under separ identities.th ventur will make two car line develop by toyota and one by gm. troubl in australia prompt gm last year to restructur holden's. 
 australia minist for industry, john button, prais the gm-toyota announc as "a major step in make the australian motor industri intern competitive."attempt to revit it troubl auto industry, the australian govern three year ago said it want to cut by 1992 the number of car line made there to about six from 13, and the number of car manufactur to three from five. 
 for all of 1986, insilco earn $33.6 million, or $1.58 a share, on sale of $745.1 million.a spokesman said analysts, holder and the rate compani have been urg insilco to quit the hous lines, which employ about 600 people. 
 the compani had taken charg in 1985 and 1986 against the hous business, the spokesman said.insilco see limit and difficult growth prospect for the lines, he said, and would have had to put much more cash into it to keep it going. 
 the spokesman said that insilco continu to look at acquisit that complement it continu busi but that it has no plan for ani more divestitures.insilco said it plan to continu run the hous busi for exist custom but will treat the line as discontinu oper in financi reports. 
 the industry, suffer from a drought of new product for more than a year, is still grope for a major crowd-drawer.in a rush to imit the strong sellers, manufactur have clutter the major categori -- particular the "action toy" line that featur such item as g.i. joe, transform and silverhawks. 
 sale of video games, preschool toys, board game and basic toy have been brisk through most of the year, and mani of these are expect to continu sell well.som analysts, moreover, say share of a few compani offer basic lines, such as hasbro and tyco toys, may actual be buy for 1988. 
 tyco, one of the few toy maker due to post a profit this year, will increas earn to about $1.65 a share next year from $1.48 this year, mr. kulli predicts.tyco tradit has been strong in basic toy such as electr train and has done particular well with a line of radio-oper car this year. 
 what more, investor for the bass group, who rais their macmillan stake to 9% earlier this year, appear to show particular interest in publishing.but some of bell & howel line could be a difficult fit if the publish compani were combined. 
 the rate concern had place mca on it creditwatch list in octob after the compani author buy back as mani as 10 million of it common shares.s&p said that while mca theater and televis entertain busi remain strong and it record and book line have perform well, "financi risk has risen in recent years, suggest an increas emphasi by manag on sharehold values." 
 restaur and supermarket increas woo shopper with a wide array of refriger and hot, prepar dishes."consum realiz that takeout is no longer so expens relat to the premium frozen dinner market," say charl bowen, a group vice presid at general food corp., which has decid against expand it premium frozen line call fresh creation until it see where the market is going. 
 cater to this attitud has spell success for some budget-mind brands.most notably, all american gourmet co. budget gourmet line, which typic offer product cost less than $2, has seen it share of the entre market rise to 15% sinc it nation rollout in 1985. 
 the unit of swiss-bas nestl s.a. also has slash price on it newli restag dinner suprem brand and is offer 30% to 40% more cents-off coupon than last year on all it frozen dinner products.not to be outdone, campbel has withdrawn it upscal l'orient line of szechuan chines meal from the market entirely. 
 but "on a veri small segment of the popul was will to pay for that level of authenticity," acknowledg robert bernstock, campbel general manag of premium meals.campbel has also begun to upgrad it le menu line. 
 pepper steak marin in ($11 a gallon) rice wine import from japan.today, the most expens le menu carri a suggest retail price tag of $3.89 compar with $4.99 when the line was introduc in 1984. 
 wooden trains, price at $15 to $100, wooden construct sets, for $12 to $25, and wooden doll houses, for $95 to $250, all are hot item at john davy, a specialti toy store in alexandria, va.at compet granni place in alexandria, playmobil products, a line of plastic pre-school toy from west germani rang in price from $2.60 to over $100, "are walk out the door," say owner rodger wall. 
 the answer lie insid it sprawl assembl plant on the outskirt of munich.there, on the second floor, worker buzz about like honeybees, assembl some 1,500 engin a day for bmw 300 seri automobiles, it least expens line. 
 ken butterworth, chairman and chief execut officer, said the compani expect quarter sale to exceed $100 million compar with $81 million.mr. butterworth said the compani line are strong both in the u.s. and internationally. 
 competit for counter space at depart store is intense.neiman-marcus, the 22-store specialti retailer, say that it customarili drop a "half a dozen" slow-mov cosmet or fragranc line each year. 
 celesti seasonings, a boulder, colo., maker of 35 differ kind of specialti teas, was acquir by kraft, a glenview, ill., maker of food products, in 1984.kraft decid to sell celesti season in part of a broad review of core lines. 
 the teas, sold in high decor box with philosph quot print on them, have name like red zinger, morn thunder and mandarin orang spice.th compani had grown consider in the past three years, ad sever new tea lines, but the relaxed, inform atmospher has been maintained, the kraft spokeswoman said. 
 when less establish design have succumb to aids, their cloth have die with them.such bud talent as karl davis, who creat a line of classic women clothing, and mark pennywell, known for his origin wed gowns, didn't employ a staff of assist design who might have continu produc their styles. 
 mani would consid the braun studio in kronberg, west germany, to be the quintessenti purveyor of "eurodesign."but braun is a unit of gillett co., in boston, and the braun line contain sever item that were first design for gillett by mr. cousins, who has long been it consultant. 
 the possibl import are further evid of the increas buy power of the japanes yen, and part of an effort to expand isuzu product line, a gm spokesman said.gm own 42.4% of isuzu, which make three line of subcompact passeng cars. 
 sirjang lal tandon, chairman of tandon, said tandon decid to sell it winchest disk drive oper to "concentr all our resourc on our person comput and subsystem product lines."th compani comput and subsystem line are expect to account for about 85% of it revenu in the fourth quarter. 
 system industri said el segundo, calif.-bas imperi technolog has about 50 employe and had revenu of about $10 million in the fiscal year end june 30.imperi make a solid state disk memori devic that system industri call "a logic extension" of it data storag line. 
 sinc last friday, outboard stock has risen more than three points.genmar boat line includ hattera yachts, wellcraft power boat and larson and lund fish boats. 
 the premier is the first car for the jeep/eagl divis follow the purchas of amc last summer.jeep is a solid success franchis that appeal to the kind of buyer chrysler wants, but the eagl car line is a decid weak sister. 
 broadway jeep/eagl in denver, colo., for example, sell about 3,000 new jeep a year, but less than 300 cars."w don't realli have much of a car line anymore," lament steve segal, the dealership general manager. 
 indeed, jeep custom have long disdain the car offer by amc and regi national des usin renault, the french auto maker that own more than 40% of amc befor the chrysler purchase.now the eagl car line consist main of leftov renault model and the discontinu amc eagl four-wheel-dr car. 
 chrysler also decid not to go ahead with plan for a coup version, in part becaus the coupe, without a lot of work, wouldn't have met the standard chrysler has set for the division, compani offici said.chrysl also has sacrif some profit for more volum with premier $12,474 to $14,079 price range, which joseph e. cappy, group vice presid of jeep/eagl marketing, said is aim right at the heart of ford taurus line. 
 he doe his own write in one room and tend to black lizard busi in the other.th line has done so well that this year mr. elli sold off his print business, includ the presses, and becam a full-tim publisher. 
 the compani insist the chang wasn't relat to an 81% drop in third-quart profit, which fell to $1.5 million, or 14 cent a share, from $8 million, or $1.03 a share, a year earlier.th poor result were attribut to higher cotton price and cost associ with the introduct of a new line of stain-resist carpet. 
 sale rose 16% to $8.47 billion from $7.31 billion.american brand best-known line are it cigarett brands, includ pall mall, tareyton and lucki strike. 
 the compani also own such major liquor brand as jim beam, old grand-dad and old crow.oth line includ swinglin offic products, case cutlery, titleist and foot-joy golf item and master locks. 
 he was brought back as beatric chairman when it was acquir by kohlberg kravi robert & co. last year in a $6.2 billion leverag buy-out.in july, mr. kelli took beatric non-food busi and some of it smaller special food line public as e-ii hold inc. 
 it array of consum product is compat with e-ii lineup, which includ samsonit luggag and stiffel lamps.moreover, mani american brand lines, such as master lock and case cutlery, fit his strategi of buy mundan busi that are consid by analyst to be undervalu and undermanaged. 
 he more inclin to buy and sell compani than to run them for veri long.although analyst don't think he particular interest in cigarett or liquor lines, he familiar with the distribut and market aspect of such retail businesses; thus he might be adept at sell those off separately. 
 in the nine months, earn fell 49% to $41.4 million, or 71 cent a share, on a 1.9% drop in revenue, to $966.7 million, from a year earlier.thi year result reflect the general soft in the toy industry, as well as disappoint sale for hasbro from sever new product -- includ air raiders, battl beast and visionari in the boy action line; and jem in the girl doll category, mr. hassenfeld said. 
 sure noth so becom the black lizard line of fiction as it home. 
 vodavi technolog corp. said it sign a $40 million, four-year contract with ctg inc. to suppli an expand line of telephon system and other products. 
 medchem product inc. said it sign a letter of intent to purchas for $31 million a line of surgic product use in stop bleeding. 
 warnaco inc. said it is in the final stage of negoti with french fashion design emanuel ungaro for licens right to his line of intim apparel. 
 the cereal boxes, which includ red and green crunch berries, show cap'n crunch dress as santa claus.scott paper co. decid to roll out a line of red and green paper towel this year after the compani research found that 80% of consum would be apt to buy such a product. 
 mr. wilcox is director of design research center, a divis of herbst, lazar, roger & bell, a chicago design firm.in redesign a line of telephon memo book for averi intern aigner division, mr. wilcox peer over secretari shoulder and studi copi in filled-in form books. 
 gould was suspend from bid on govern job becaus of alleg improprieti in set prices.th move by the gsa come as gould is tri to sell it defens lines. 
 looart own current inc., a major market of greet card and stationeri base in colorado springs, colo., that has annual sale of more than $125 million, primerica said.th sale is part of primerica plan, announc in august, to sell all it mail-ord line in order to reduc debt on it $750 million purchas of smith barney inc. 
 lsi logic corp., a milpitas, calif.-bas semiconductor concern, said it enter into a long-term agreement with close held mip comput system to manufactur and market mip line of 32-bit microprocessors, includ reduced-instruction-set computing, or risc, chips. 
 "it great styling, price right, and it the best engin car buick has ever given us."that car is the first in a seri of gm-10 products, a new $5 billion line of mid-siz car that will come out over the next two years. 
 general motor corp. buick divis formal introduc the first of gm crucial new line of midsiz cars, and predict the model will revers the divis two-year slide in sales. 
 the new regal is the first product of the $5 billion project code-nam "gm-10."the gm-10 line is aim at regain sale that gm has lost in it bread-and-butt market: midsiz car aim at upper-middle-class americans. 
 he and other buick officials, however, said consum incent will continue."given the suppli and demand situation," mr. mertz said, refer to the increas industri overcapac and flat demand, "some form of incent activ will continue, but not on everi car line." 
 gm buick divis introduc the first of the auto maker crucial new line of midsiz cars. 
 data general corp. introduc a new comput system that reduc the base price for it line of 32-bit superminicomputers. 
 "we want an honest reaction" from consumers, she now explains.but ms. georg end the mysteri recent by offici unveil her chicken by georg line at a parti with all the trimmings. 
 it spark the current disput this summer by question a custom servic rule that it board fell within the tariff reach.th washington comput trade group said it understand intern busi machin corp. was also affect by the new tariffs, becaus it buy board for it new person system/2 line of pcs from matsushita electr industri co. of japan. 
 packag corp., which own and oper ekco packaging, said it will manag the kaiser facil as part of it dispos packag group.kaisertech, a hold company, call the sale part of it plan to focus on line that offer "signific competit advantage." 
 gillett recent acquir a major interest in anoth french manufactur of expens pens, waterman s.a.that acquisit is intend to broaden gillett paperm pen line to includ pen in the $60 to $80 range, gillett offici said. 
 storag technolog corp. ad two new storag system to it line of disk drive for mainfram computers. 
 toyota is enter the u.s. luxuri car market by sell an upscal car line through a new dealer network. 
 intern busi machin corp. is unleash an aggress legal campaign to protect it new line of person comput from clones. 
 outsid the courtroom, ibm is issu strong warn that rival won't be abl to build a legal clone of it newest pcs unless they get patent licens from ibm -- a requir that could present a new barrier to enter the clone market.big blue alreadi has file two unusu broad lawsuit against alleg infring of the trademark for it four-month-old pc line, call the person system/2. 
 such a drop, in ibm most visibl consum market, would stand as one of ibm most rankl public-imag setbacks.in it first famili of pcs, ibm specif use wide avail part and an "open" design that would let independ compani make software, accessori and even full comput that compet with the ibm line. 
 "you might even look at it as an insur policy," he says.chip & technologies, base in milpitas, calif., make wide use microchip set for clone makers, design to imit the inner work of ibm old pc line. 
 toyota motor corp. said it will enter the increas crowd u.s. luxury-car market by sell a line of upscal car through a new toyota dealer network call lexus. 
 toyota motor corp. said it will enter the increas crowd u.s. luxury-car market by sell a line of upscal car through a new toyota dealer network call lexus.th auto maker, which said it will introduc the car in late 1989 as 1990 models, becom the third japanes auto maker to opt for a so-cal "second channel" of dealer to highlight a new line of cars. 
 honda motor co. introduc it legend and integra luxuri car in the u.s. in 1986 through a new dealer network call acura.and just last month, nissan motor corp. announc plan for a new line of upscal car that, start in 1989, it will market under the new infin label. 
 competit has becom so heat that bmw of north america inc., a unit of bayerisch motoren werk ag, and mercedes-benz of north america inc., a unit of daimler-benz ag, recent announc sale incent to help trim excess inventori -- a rare move for the two west german luxury-car makers.toyota hope it upscal line will help it hang on to current custom who have had to look elsewher when trade up to luxuri cars, and say it isn't worri about the crowd market. 
 it said the dealers, who will be pick from insid and outsid toyota current rank of 1,085 u.s. dealers, will be situat in the top 50 market in the u.s. -- market that can sustain sale of luxuri car -- and will have to demonstr a record of custom satisfaction.th auto maker plan to requir this first group of dealer to have facil for the lexus car total separ from their current car lines. 
 that strategi is common for auto maker set up separ dealer network and is meant, among other things, to make buyer of the upscal car feel special and to underscor the exclus ambianc of the luxuri market.but some dealer have voic skeptic about the practice, note that sale of new luxury-car line may not be big enough to support the expens -- often million of dollar -- of separ facilities. 
 indeed, toyota said it expect to sell onli 30,000 of the vehicl in the first model year.asid from hang on to current customers, the lexus luxuri line could help boost toyota earnings, if it prove popular. 
 the japanes suppli capit and technolog and the american suppli manag and marketing.four small, close held firms, an american, a dutch, a german and a japanes -- each a leader in one narrow line of chemic solvent -- have merg their separ research lab with the lab of an american univers with expertis in the solvent field. 
 onli by band togeth do they have the $200 million in sale need to support a decent research budget in a rapid chang technology.and then there is the belgian produc of process meat -- the largest produc in it specialti line within the common market but still with sale of onli about $60 million a year. 
 u.s. export drop like a stone in the year of the overvalu dollar and import soared; not one major american industri could maintain it export in the face of a currenc fluctuat of almost 50%.yet onli in steel, automobiles, consum electronics, machin tool and a few semiconductor line did the world share of american product go down at all. 
 dover corp., new york, acquir the duncan industri parking-met unit of rymer co. for $29 million.th acquisit add rymer onli nonfood oper to dover line of industri parts. 
 "they'v had tremend market respons for the workstat products," he said.stephen k. smith, comput analyst with painewebb inc., caution that hewlett-packard profit margin fell 1% in the quarter to 7.2%, a sign that brisk demand for the compani product may not be concentr in it more profit lines. 
 increasingly, such product are be made for appl comput inc. macintosh.although add-on aren't yet avail to match the featur of ibm new person system/2 line, such featur as the improv graphic probabl will be mimick soon. 
 some of the add-ons, however, are like to be expensive.still, as consum tri to decid whether to spend $5,000 or more for the most power of ibm new ps/2 line, interest in the aftermarket is like to grow. 
 but michael kennedy, a food analyst at id financi services, believ the burger develop is emblemat of hormel innovations.mr. ramey is more excit about the top shelf line, which packag microwav meat entre in multilay plastic that act like a can. 
 mr. mcmillin note hormel is sell at 19 time his estim of $1.50 for next year earnings, compar with a multipl of about 16 for all food stocks.lik ani other high-multipl stock that includ a big bet on some futur line, hormel carri the risk that this profus of new product will fall flat. 
 mr. ramey say the biggest risk is that hormel won't have enough advertis dollar to put behind it new ideas.but he believ the can meat lines, have serv as a cash cow to financ product development, can support those outlay as well. 
 perkin-elm share close yesterday at $38, up $1.25, in new york stock exchang composit trading.in the past two fiscal years, perkin-elm has taken various charges, though much smaller, as it undertook to refocus the chip equip line and gird for what mani in the industri say is a rebound semiconductor market. 
 revlon is sell the two vision-car busi for more than twice their annual sales; such busi typic fetch the equival of 1.5 time annual sales, accord to ms. hall of smith barney.th sale of the vision-car line will leav revlon focus on it cosmet business, which analyst expect to have 1987 sale of about $1.7 billion, compar with $1.15 billion last year. 
 commodor task to restructur it u.s. oper is formidable.th compani vener model 64 comput is in the final year of it life cycl and it person comput line is up against new product from comput giants, includ intern busi machin corp., appl comput inc. and tandi corp. 
 the compani vener model 64 comput is in the final year of it life cycl and it person comput line is up against new product from comput giants, includ intern busi machin corp., appl comput inc. and tandi corp.meanwhile, commodor is bank much of the compani growth on it technolog impress amiga comput line, which also is face with numer competit obstacl in the u.s. 
 sale rose 16% to $1.4 billion from $1.21 billion.th framingham, mass.-bas discount store oper has had weak result from it larg discount depart store oper in recent period becaus of strong competit and weak in it apparel lines. 
 the japan defens agenc allow vendor to earn less than 5%, but that is a godsend for kawasaki heavi industri ltd.the compani other manufactur lines, such as shipbuilding, are awash in deficits. 
 cost-control measur have improv margins, he added, saying, "we'r well-posit to be a lot more competitive."about 75% of anticip sale this year are expect to be to new customers, mani of them cardiologist and internists, as the compani introduc a line of desktop unit to help detect heart and lung disease. 
 although a manag chang at simac plant in gessate, italy, has meant interrupt shipment of it pastamat to the u.s., mr. carter is await a "new and improved" version in time for this year christma sell season.even so, his heart is realli in a new line of toasters. 
 for the second time in less than two months, volkswagen u.s. inc., troy, mich., said it will boost suggest retail price of it entry-level fox line. 
 on juli 1, the compani ad $100 to $150 to the base price of it 1987 foxes.th line is assembl in brazil. 
 the compani also is introduc a new product, a mixtur of fruit liqueur and brandy.in a bid to distinguish it brands, the christian brother has taken it name off it generic tabl wines, renam the line "mont la salle," and has reserv the christian brother name for it top-of-the-lin vintag wines, which are be pushed. 
 anoth recent campaign has target the market for inexpens wines.on ad ask consum to "tast the fun" of christian brother line of low-alcohol wine with name like "wild berry" and "la blush." 
 sale for continu oper for the fiscal year grew about 8% to $210 million from $194.9 million in fiscal 1986.earlier in the current fiscal year, ipco sold it sterl dental busi and it dental prosthet line, which had combin annual sale of about $20 million. 
 term weren't disclosed.th 185-acr shipyard was shut down by general dynam last summer after it complet build a line of maritim posit ship for the military. 
 the amount of stock involv wasn't disclosed.colg plan to buy minnetonka softsoap brand liquid soap, villag bath adult bath products, sesam street children bath product and institutional-commerci line of liquid soaps. 
 mr. lewi appar has readi buyer for some of his new beatric european operations.certain co-own of those intern line -- such as the ballv famili of madrid, who sold beatric an interest in their campofrio meat concern in 1977 -- have been tri to persuad beatric mr. kelli to let them repurchas their stakes, accord to the ballv attorney. 
 he wouldn't elaborate, except to add that he has "no plan to dispos of a signific part" of his new holdings.for beatrice, the sale of the intern oper mean mr. kelli has achiev his goal of strip the compani down to it u.s. domest food core, led by it hunt tomato product and wesson cook oil lines. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday, del e. webb close at $25.75 a share, down 37.5 cents.webb said the discussions, which it describ as "cordial," center around the two group interest in webb; potenti licens problem the group might encount with webb nevada and new jersey gambl operations; webb recent announc that it might split up it leisur and real estat oper and possibl sell part of the company; and the compani intent to take hefti writedown this year from it gambl lines. 
  new line of person comput was among it best seller in
 world of wonder said friday that it expect lazer tag toy -- of which it has $25 million in inventori -- to recov from recent weakness.it also said it has begun shipment of a new line of school accessori and a video game, and plan to ship other new toy soon. 
 then the compani took a hard look at it remain businesses."w ask what was it possibl to do to elimin expens without hurt the long-term vital of those lines," mr. mockler says. 
 two of it busi line -- the manufactur of portabl electr power tool and of gas meter -- could easili be spun off or sold.in 1986, these line account for $294.5 million of singer $1.73 billion in revenue. 
 if singer doe becom a takeov target, a potenti acquir might have a relat easi time gain support from institutions, which own about 55% of singer.whil singer divestitur of it sew line last year was hail by sharehold and analysts, it top manag hasn't alway receiv the highest praise. 
 in addit to common stock, allied-sign own $200 million of union texa prefer stock that was purchas last year when union texa cash flow fell below specifi targets.allied-sign second-quart net incom fell 22% to $148 million, or 85 cent a share, includ profit from continu oper of $111 million and a $37 million gain from the sale of discontinu lines. 
 tandon had been sole a maker of disk drive for ibm pcs, but decid to expand it busi after post hefti loss becaus of a glut in the disk drive market.however, the compani had difficulti with it person comput line domestically, and was hurt by the comput industri slump. 
 tandi corp. unveil addit to both the low end and high end of it comput line, includ a power model that is price about 20% lower than similar machin from intern busi machin corp. and compaq comput corp. 
 as expected, the fort worth, texas-bas electron retail introduc a machin base on intel corp. 80386 microchip, which is becom the standard chip for the highest perform ibm-compat computers."they'v broaden and strengthen their line, though there aren't ani technolog breakthroughs," said eugen glazer, analyst with dean witter reynold inc. in new york. 
 ibm 80386 comput becam avail in june.tandi introduc two addit to the low end of it line, aim at two market that are tandi tradit strength, school and home users. 
 donna rice link to gari hart is start to pay off.th miami actress-model, whose relationship with mr. hart upset his presidenti campaign, will appear in tv commerci and magazin ad this fall for a women sportswear line call no excuses. 
 the beauti industri has been consolid rapid in recent year as drug compani have rush to shed their cosmet and fragranc businesses.meanwhile, cosmet and personal-car compani have snatch up the lines, prefer to buy establish brand rather than build new one from scratch. 
 avon hasn't chang it plan to expand but doesn't see ani immedi candid of arden size, he said.ear this year, beecham group plc sold dian von furstenberg fragranc to revlon group inc. american cyanamid co. sold the jacquelin cochran fragranc and treatment lines, includ the distribut right to the nina ricci line, to sanofi inc. squibb corp. sold charl of the ritz group ltd. last novemb to yves saint laurent, which in turn sold part to revlon month later. 
 revlon sold bain de soleil to procter & gambl co.th few major beauti line still own by pharmaceut compani includ schering-plough corp. maybellin and pfizer inc. coti line. 
 "bi use this approach, an investor can just about get his money back when the pool of equip is sold," mr. smith says.in high technology, phoenix leas inc., a unit of phoenix american inc., san rafael, calif., say it cut risk in it cash distribut fund ii by invest in 12 differ line of comput and peripher equip and leas them main to fortun 1000 companies. 
 it not a pcjr by ani means," said frank l. bryant, presid of neeco inc., a canton, mass., comput chain.whil ibm offici and analyst said the compani has had some success with it model 30 machin in the educ market -- until now the low end of ibm new ps/2 line -- the compani face stiff competit from both tandi and apple. 
 tandi offici wouldn't discuss detail of the announcements.also wide expect are new addit to the low-end of tandi comput line, which are aim at the compani strongest markets, in education, small busi and home computers.in addition, tandi is expect to unveil a more power laptop comput to add to it alreadi success line. 
 term weren't disclosed.alfin stop sell it skin-car line last month and said it would take a pretax write-off of $15 million for it fourth quarter end juli 31, in addit to a third-quart $4.6 million reserve, to cover cost of leav the business. 
 tandi unveil four addit to it comput line, includ a power model price 20% below similar machin by ibm and compaq. 
 produc onli one million barrel a year, pittsburgh brewing, which is a unit of swan brew co. of australia isn't go to challeng giant anheuser-busch cos.still, mr. carota job is becom more complex as the breweri expand it line to 18 brands, includ sever beer (samuel adam boston lager, pennsylvania pilsner, thirteen coloni amber, old heurich) brew under contract for other companies. 
 smithklin beckman, base in philadelphia, will own 60% and sumitomo will own 40%.the joint ventur will be base at smithklin beckman tokyo headquarters, and will develop and market the pharmaceut concern line of gastrointestinal, cold and analges products, includ smithklin contac and cimetidine, the activ ingredi in tagamet. 
 the averag price chevron receiv for west texa intermediate, a benchmark product, rose to $18 a barrel from $14 a year ago; it current is $20."although benefit our domest explor and product operations, this strengthen in crude oil price hasn't help our refin and market results," mr. keller added, note that those line were hurt by reduc return on sales. 
 but even when microwav food look and tast acceptable, there can be unexpect snags.gari esbeck, market manag of frozen food at hormel, recal that particip in a recent focus group in kansa city, kan., were suspici of the authent grill mark on his compani line of microwav meats. 
 sale increas to $159.6 million from $116.5 million.ronald j. brown, senior vice president, market and sales, said the result reflect strong demand for the latest microcomput -- appl comput inc. appl se, intern busi machin corp. person system 2 line and compaq comput corp. new 386 machine. 
 "there was some initi confus when ibm announc the ps/2, but now there is major interest in the ps/2 and the other new microcomputers.at the same time, the whole line of older products, the pc-at type products, is still strong." 
 "it is our intent to own the company," said howard bermick, alberto-culv execut vice president.mr. bermick said the propos acquisition, if completed, would expand alberto-culv retail and profession toiletri line. 
 mr. kulli say western could rais it net by 25% annual for the next three year by boost oper profit onli 9% a year, "simpli becaus interest will go down and goodwil amort will go down."but he doubt the compani can grow much faster than that, cite it need for more disciplin and focus in it "helter-skelter" product develop line. 
 the except is x-ray mammographi equip for the diagnosi of breast cancer."thomson has a more complet line of mammographi equipment," said robert l. stocking, vice presid of market for ge medic equip group in milwaukee. 
 compaq comput corp. report that net incom more than tripl in the second quarter on burgeon sale of the compani high-end products.sal climb even after intern busi machin corp. unveil a line of compet comput april 2, a day after the period began. 
 on june 30, however, the day compaq project for the second quarter was made public, the share jump $3.375 to close at $46.875 a share.th result also strong defi nay-say who said that compaq might face a big slowdown in sale after ibm new line of comput was introduced. 
 compaq comput profit more than tripl in the second quarter, exceed expectations.sal continu to increas despit ibm introduct of a compet comput line. 
 ford motor co. said it will spend $900 million to develop a new line of auto or truck engin and retool it tractor plant in romeo, mich., to produc them. 
 coleco industri inc. has run into a hairi legal problem over a new line of it cabbag patch kids. 
 put nylon-root hair -- rather than braid cloth hair -- on cabbag patch doll was it concept, albert says.accord to alberts, coleco is pay royalti for use the concept on one popular line of dolls, but not on the bubbl bath babi line, which was introduc earli this year. 
 the suit also ask for unspecifi monetari damages.arthur albert, who run albert with his wife, said he has heard that a propos "talking" cabbag patch line might also have nylon hair, and that he would expect royalti payment on that product, too. 
 a week later, clabir general defens unit said it would buy all of hi-shear 5.9 million share for $23.50 each.at that time, clabir and general defens chairman henri d. clark said hi-shear new defens product fit well with general defens line of anti-tank weapons. 
 remind the comptrol that befor he can creat a bottom line, someon must generat the top line of the incom statement.bi have the sale repres do what he or she doe best -- namely, meet direct with the custom -- and by support that function with skill peopl to do the autom administr for them via cellular phone connections, you can chang the way your top line is created. 
 undistract by the rabble, mr. smith ("sinjin" to player and fans) stretch in a beach chair and await his first game.h wear blue and white tog from sideout -- his person sportswear line that is expect to have revenu of $5 million this year -- and lie under an umbrella bear the name of a new sportswear shop he run with his brother and sister in nearbi santa monica. 
 nissan motor corp. plan to announc today a separ u.s. dealer network that will market an upscal car line, dealer familiar with the project said. 
 nissan motor corp. plan to announc today a separ u.s. dealer network that will market an upscal car line, dealer familiar with the project said.th move would make nissan the second japanes auto maker to opt for a separ dealer network in an effort to highlight a new line of cars. 
 one dealer said nissan told him that the sport coup would be price in the low-$30,000 range; the sedan may be price in the mid-$30,000 range.h ad that nissan current is consid introduc the line in the fall of 1988 as 1989 models. 
 the new car are expect to be power by an eight-cylind v8 engine, a move that would make nissan the first japanes auto maker to introduc a car with that larg an engin in the u.s. larg engin can be veri profit for manufactur becaus buyer are will to pay more for the extra power.person familiar with nissan plan said the compani could requir some of the dealer in the new network to have separ facil for the new car line, if their current dealership premis can't be gear to an upscal market. 
 stuart hall co. expect fiscal third-quart net incom to declin sharpli becaus of competit price of it school product line, said charl g. hanson, chairman and chief execut officer. 
 but constitut item should have a longer life, sinc the celebr run through 1991."we think it has a lot of stay power," say tom elsbernd of allen co., blanchester, ohio, which offer a line of commemor glassware. 
 briefs: the second citi experiment theater group in chicago open a new revue, "kukla, fawn and ollie, or contra hear me knocking." . . .a new line of exercis machin for children is call futur force. 
 intern busi machin corp., in a move appar aim at shore up lag softwar develop efforts, has form a new softwar division.in addition, ibm has establish a market unit that will focus on it midrang comput line, which has been under sieg from rival such as digit equip corp. 
 traditionally, ibm bread-and-butt has been in oper system for midrang and mainfram computers, the intern softwar instruct that guid the machines.th new applic system divis will consolid ibm world-wid softwar develop activities, and help outsid softwar maker write program for ibm new line of person computers, midrang system and mainfram machines, said joseph m. guglielmi, presid of the new division. 
 he was assist group executive, market and support, in ibm big market arm, the inform system group.mr. ford appoint indic concern on ibm part over it midrang lines, which continu to have difficulti in the second quarter. 
 black & decker corp. said it incorrect state in a recent interview that it was place less emphasi on such personal-car product as hair dryers.in fact, the compani said, hair dryer and other personal-car line have alreadi been eliminated. 
 mr. schulman said he estim that fourth-quart order rose 25% or more from the strong year-earli level.h said the 9370 line of comput from intern busi machin corp. doesn't appear to be hurt digit sales. 
 prime comput inc. said it ad a more power system to it line of desk-sid minicomputers. 
 comsat said it is negoti with "sever potenti buyers" for the manufactur unit and the satellites.th compani alreadi has agre to sell it comsat intern communic subsidiari and remain comsat technolog product lines. 
 merril lynch advanc 7/8 to 36 5/8.the brokerag firm was recommend by smith barney, harri upham & co., which cite it better-than-expect revenu in it merger and acquisit line in the second quarter. 
 sale rose to $2.8 billion from $2.5 billion last year.th figur for the 1986 quarter have been restat to exclud sale and expens of discontinu lines. 
 as of march 31, the most recent figur a spokesman said he could obtain, ralston debt total $1.49 billion.much of that debt result from the compani $1.42 billion acquisit of union carbid corp. batteri division, which make the evereadi line, in april 1986. 
 in it fiscal first quarter end may 2, marcad earn $2.1 million, or seven cent a share, on revenu of $36.1 million.a previous reported, marcad has agre to acquir close held europ craft import inc., maker of the member onli sportswear line, for undisclos terms. 
 chrysler attribut the jump in oper earn to cost-cut move and to higher profit margin from strong truck and minivan sales."w said we were go to put a heavier emphasi on truck in this company, and move upscal to a richer product mix in our car lines," said lee a. iacocca, chairman and chief execut officer. 
 yet even mr. amerman impress intern experi doesn't alway prepar mattel for the quirk of some foreign markets.th compani recent start oper in india and was surpris to find that the master line and hot wheel car far outsold the perenni star, barbie. 
 about $420 million of the total will be spent this year, he indicated.for example, scott manag will seek board approv soon for expand product capac in dover, del., for softkins, a line of wet bathroom-tissu product aim at adult markets. 
 apollo comput inc., chelmsford, mass., said it sign a multimillion-dollar agreement with cetia s.a., a subsidiari of thomson-csf of france, under which cetia will develop and market workstat base on apollo comput and software.th contract call for apollo to deliv system and server from it domain seri 3000 workstat and it dn500 line of graphic workstat over the next five years. 
 the close of the plant, which make bias passeng and truck tire and radial light truck tires, will result in the layoff of 1,300 workers.th unit said ani charg for the close were includ in a $65 million provis it parent took in last year fourth quarter for the restructur of it north american tire lines. 
 du pont co., wilmington, del., said it plan a $60 million expans of manufactur capac for it zytel line of nylon resin in uentrop, west germany. 
 mr. exley said order were "particular strong" for the compani person comput and tower famili of supermicrocomputers.th compani in may bolster it person comput line with three new comput and a workstation, includ one base on intel corp. power 80386 microprocessor. 
 the household applianc compani net in the quarter fell to $47.4 million, or 65 cent a share, from $52.4 million, or 71 cent a share, in the 1986 second quarter.th compani blame the declin on, among other things, the depreci and engin cost of introduc a line of kitchenaid refriger and laundri applianc in the first quarter. 
 alco standard corp. said it plan to sell it alco beverag co. unit, alco gift and glasswar subsidiari and alco packag and metalsourc corp. steel distribut operations.th line repres almost 15% of the compani total revenue. 
 but a dealer, a larg custom and sever ibm insid confirm that an announc is nigh.ibm had seem to abandon the low end of the person comput market when it introduc it new person system/2 line in earli april. 
 but "they still were make money on the xt, and ibm doe not leav money on the table," said bob orbach, director of busi develop at 47th street computer, a new york retailer.ibm is expect to bring out a machin that use the same central processor as the xt, has the same color monitor as the machin that is at the low end of the compani new pc line, accord to the industri executives. 
 historically, ibm remain flexibl until the last possibl moment on the price and configur of a new product, so the industri sourc caution that their inform is somewhat speculative.though ibm new line of person comput has done moder well, it is by no mean certain that a new low-end machin would succeed. 
 tandi said it think it would continu to hold a price advantag over ibm."you'r compet with equip that avail . . . in tandi line from $599 up, and we discount," said ed juge, director of market plan at tandy. 
 "you'r compet with equip that avail . . . in tandi line from $599 up, and we discount," said ed juge, director of market plan at tandy.separately, dealer said ibm has begun offer addit discount on it new line of person comput and has begun pay freight charges. 
 that was much less than expected, analyst said, and reflect heavi discount in respons to competition.ibm said both order and shipment increas dure the quarter, and singl out it new line of person comput as show particular strength. 
 ibm said it after-tax profit margin fell to 8.4% from 10.4% in the 1986 half.in the second half, ibm is expect to benefit as it start to ship in volum the new version of it 3090 mainframes, it 9370 minicomput and some product in it new person comput line. 
 ford motor co., dearborn, mich., said it is invest $563 million in a new line of light truck and the expans of it louisville, ky., truck assembl plant to accommod product of the trucks.th auto maker said $260 million will be use for the expansion, and $303 million will be use for development, engin and other cost relat to the truck line. 
 heinz said the transact is subject to complet of a definit agreement.champion valley farms, base in bloomsburg, pa., make a line dog food product market under the "recipe" brand. 
 the pc1, which will arriv on the italian market this month, has a base price of one million lire ($750).it oper program make it compat with model made by intern busi machin corp. and other main comput lines. 
 as part of the agreement, cooper will acquir certain right to use the joy name and trademark in connect with the acquir business.cooper, a maker of tool and compress and drill equipment, said the new busi complement it exist compressor line and should improv it market posit and extend the horsepow rang it can offer in certain type of compressors. 
 from a 52-week low of 26, microsoft share near quintupl to a peak close price of 126 1/2 reach may 8, rank the stock as one of the great stori of the current bull market.behind the move: strong sale of person comput clone that also use the pc oper system microsoft develop for intern busi machines, and ibm decis to use microsoft softwar in it new pc line. 
 but now he believ the risk is on the downside.with second-quart pc softwar busi down 5% to 10% from the march quarter and third-quart prospect uncertain due to custom confus about the new ibm line, the roberston colman analyst says, "there is go to be an unusu lack of visibl at a time when investor need some comfort." 
 sinc 1984, mattel has tri to focus on toys, abandon it electron and entertain businesses.recently, mattel has been hurt by slump demand in the u.s. for it master of the univers and rainbow brite toy lines. 
 the oper system is softwar that direct some of a comput basic operations.th os/2 system, schedul for releas in the 1988 first quarter, was announc april 2, the same day intern busi machin corp. unveil it person system/2 comput line. 
 northern telecom ltd. is expect to unveil today a new line of digit telephon switch hardwar and softwar that doubl the current voic and data process capac of it exist switches. 
 in earli may, the new york attorney general offic said it was investig alfin advertis claim for glycel.in late may, alfin said it would refocus it busi back to fragrances, it origin business, and said it had hire bear, stearn & co. to studi altern includ the sale of the skin-car line. 
 in late may, alfin said it would refocus it busi back to fragrances, it origin business, and said it had hire bear, stearn & co. to studi altern includ the sale of the skin-car line.besid glycel, alfin skin-car line includ birthright cosmet for pregnant women, and irma shorell, a diversifi line of cosmet that alfin acquir in 1985. 
 intern miner & chemic corp. said it mallinckrodt inc. unit is divest a hand of peripher busi as part of an effort to focus on line with higher profit margin and stronger market positions. 
 intern miner & chemic corp. said it mallinckrodt inc. unit is divest a hand of peripher busi as part of an effort to focus on line with higher profit margin and stronger market positions.proce from the sale of the various line are expect to exceed $100 million, the compani said. 
 term of the two transact weren't disclosed.in addition, mallinckrodt has put it forma scientif laboratory-equip busi and it barium gastrointestin imaging-product line on the block, intern miner said. 
 sun microsystem inc. is slate to introduc today a new line of high-perform workstat that provid the horsepow of convent minicomput cost 10 time as much. 
 in april, sun chop the price on it low-end workstat 37% to less than $5,000, a move that has sinc been match by it main competitors, apollo comput inc. and digit equipment.th compani also recent announc a line of communic product that can connect a full array of person computers, workstations, minicomputers, mainfram and supercomputers. 
 between 40% and 50% of data translat product are use in intern busi machin corp. person computers, or ibm compat machines.mr. molinari said the compani is design product for the ibm ps/2 line of person computers, as well as for appl comput co. new macintosh ii. 
 for texa instruments, the agreement is one of it first major announc to flesh out a busi strategi the compani outlin in december, emphas allianc with other semiconductor makers.intel is an obvious choic in that strategy, analyst said, becaus texa instrument line of semiconductor is weakest where intel is strongest. 
 "this give rise to hope," mr. mandresh said.th bullish analyst said mani ibm custom order the compani new 3090e line, a seri of enhanc version of it mainfram computers, and mani other upgrad their exist machines. 
 he ad that, "bi the 1990s, concern about ibm domin of the industri will resurface."still, it remain to be seen how fulli custom will adopt the 9370 mid-rang line and ibm new line of person computers. 
 sun microsystem will unveil today a line of comput workstat it hope will be the industri standard. 
 mr. schafer move quick to suit his shopper tastes.when the aid epidem struck, he introduc a line of key chain bear plastic-encas condom and the message, "in case of aids, break glass."when sak fifth avenu made a splash with s.f.a. t-shirts, south of the border t-shirt shop introduc the s.o.b. fashion line. 
 the compani will add a new melt furnace, upgrad an exist furnac and instal new glass-form equipment.an addit 100 job are expect as a result of the improvements, which will allow the plant to add to it line of scientif glassware. 
 e-ii, to be head by former esmark chairman donald p. kelly, is an offshoot of close held beatrice.th new company, which contain beatric non-food businesses, such as samsonit luggag and stiffel lamps, and some smaller specialty-food lines, will be use primarili as a vehicl for acquisitions. 
 he couldn't be reach yesterday for comment.th new compani contain beatric non-food businesses, such as samsonit luggag and stiffel lamps, and some it smaller specialty-food lines. 
 she own a london wine bar and recent bought a big hous in the country, where she plan to instal herself and the entir famili (mum, dad, kid sis and the dogs).sh also launch a line of cosmetics. 
 at a news confer schedul for today at the marriott marqui hotel in new york, compaq will roll out some comput industri royalti -- it own president, rod canion, plus a triumvir of softwar princes: chairmen william gate of microsoft corp., edward m. esber of ashton-t co. and jim p. manzi of lotus develop corp.th purpose: to put out the word that the new line of comput from intern busi machin corp. hasn't lock compaq comput out of import futur advanc in software. 
 applic software, such as spreadsheet and word processors, is written to fit "over" the oper system.os/2 was introduc april 2 along with the new line of comput from ibm. 
 while it isn't out yet, microsoft say it will run on comput current available, like those made by compaq and others, as well as on the new ibm model that deviat in some way from the standard design that compaq uses.compaq appar think some comput buyer believ os/2 can onli be use on the new ibm line. 
 if buyer are confused, it isn't surprising.for one thing, the new ibm line is, not coincidentally, call ps/2. 
 what more, while microsoft has done most of the develop on os/2, ibm is make some slight alter and will put out it own version, call ibm os/2.in it public statements, ibm hasn't deni that os/2 will run on comput made by compaq and others, but it say the system will run faster and with clearer graphic on the new ibm line. 
 "i find a lot of my client equat ps/2 with os/2 and figur everyon els is out in the cold."industri watcher say ibm may well be right that os/2 will run better on the new ps/2 line, which includ some hardwar enhanc that other comput maker don't have yet. 
 the acquisit will allow bell atlant to start a new leas unit for medic equipment, particular medic imag devices, the spokesman said.th compani intend to fold nation fund other leas line into tricon. 
 mr. johnson said that the compani hasn't ani immedi plan to make an acquisit and that it hasn't acquir a new compani for at least 10 years."we'v had all that we can do to improv the line that we'r in," he said. 
 earlier this month, bsn enter negoti to acquir medalist industri inc., a milwaukee-bas maker of commerci and industri products, for $25 a share.last year, bsn purchas medalist protect equip division, ad it to it line of cheerlead suppli and it tenni ladi inc. chain of athlet cloth stores. 
 a fireman fund spokeswoman said the decis appli to all kind of insur written by fireman fund and it affiliates."massachusett doesn't allow a compani to withdraw from just one line," the spokeswoman said. 
 "we'v never handl toshiba.w don't have a need for the line," said warren g. hyman, chairman of newmark & lewi inc., a retail chain base in hicksville, n.y. 
 he run a pro tournament in los angel for volvo, is chairman of the southern california tenni association, and is activ in junior-develop program for the u.s. tenni association.perhap most notably, wilson sport good co., with whom he has been associ sinc he turn pro, just came out with a new line of mid-siz graphit racket that will bear his name. 
 compaq comput rang in price from about $2,000 to about $9,000.the increas -- similar to gain the compani has regist in previous quarter -- indic that compaq product are fare well despit new competit and uncertainti creat by intern busi machin corp. new line of person comput that debut on april 2. 
 the microprocessor is a complex of integr circuit on one silicon chip that perform the comput basic computations.mr. canion was cautious, however, about draw conclus regard the success of the new ibm line. 
 ccx, a maker of tool steel, glass fiber and wire screening, said the charg consist main of a $9,870,000 write-down of asset and close expens relat to certain domest and foreign specialti steel operations.th compani also had another, smaller one-tim charg and some profit from discontinu line in the quarter. 
 volvo cars, a dutch auto maker, is own 70% by the dutch govern and 30% by volvo, a swedish auto maker.th dutch econom ministri said that as part of the debt rescheduling, a second dedic trust would be creat to help fund futur model lines. 
 mr. krumm said in an interview that slowli rise interest rate and a downturn in the hous industri will hurt the industri after four year of record sales.mr. krumm said the magic chef acquisit move maytag into the major applianc line in which it want to be, such as refriger and ranges. 
 he said one reason for the expect gain is that the compani expect to benefit from the new feder tax law.mr. atwat attribut the gain larg to strong increas in unit volum and market share by the food and restaur compani packag food lines, includ cereals, flour, betti crocker bake and dessert mix and gorton frozen seafood. 
 befor the 1986 fourth quarter, the ail auto maker most recent profit was in the 1984 fourth quarter.mr. cappi made the forecast here while introduc part of amc 1988-model line. 
 "perelman want this compani bad enough that he will to pay enough to get it," said one person close to the revlon chairman.mr. perelman has argu that combin revlon cosmet product with gillett line would creat one of the world most formid consumer-product companies. 
 in the past five months, no fewer than five bid have been made for becor, a century-old rust belt fixtur in south milwaukee, wis.becor excav equip line are well regarded, and they fit well with most of the suitor businesses. 
 the spokeswoman ad that the compani is notifi exist policyhold their polici will be cancel in 60 days.sh said liberti isn't write ani new worker compens polici in the state but it will continu to handl other lines. 
 kraft inc. said it complet the previous report acquisit of the anderson clayton food divis from quaker oat co. for $235 million.th glenview, ill.-bas food concern said the unit, which includ the chiffon margarin and seven sea salad dress lines, had sale of $433 million in fiscal 1986. 
 caterpillar inc. said it was select by navistar intern corp., a chicago-bas truck manufacturer, to suppli fuel system compon for navistar futur line of diesel engines. 
 current sales: 1,000 meal a month.two minneapolis-area hospit plan nation distribut this year of their nutriti cuisin line, made by a local food processor.american hospit suppli corp. plan a line of special-diet meal to help increas hospit food-servic revenues. 
 american hospit suppli corp. plan a line of special-diet meal to help increas hospit food-servic revenues.nutracar inc., newport beach, calif., expand it line of hospital-market meals, hope hospit themselv will begin use them for patients. 
 j boat inc., newport, r.i., predict sale of 22-foot to 36-foot sailboat will doubl in the next 10 years.still, some sailboat maker hedg their bet by start powerboat lines; other drop their sailboat line altogether. 
 parker g. montgomery, chairman and architect of a seri of such spinoff of coopervis compani over the past sever years, said the propos action are design to "help maxim sharehold value."th compani eye-car product line had sale of $162 million in fiscal 1986. 
 your may 7 stori on itt corp. potenti sale to an investor of it telex line and it merger with western union state that if the lebow group also bought the telex busi of rca corp., the result combin of all three telex busi would result in mci communic corp. be the onli remain u.s.-bas competitor in the intern telex business. 
 ing.c. olivetti & co. introduc a line of six person comput design to compet with a group of machin unveil in april by intern busi machin corp. 
 both can be use either in local-area network or alone.in addition, the line includ a workstat call the s-281 for use in network and a low-end, stand-alon model call the m-240. 
 "it will be a record year in term of (unit) volum and revenue" for ibm person comput sales, mr. low said.h ad that ibm has increas it sale forecast for the machin sinc the april 2 introduct of the ps/2 line. 
 in composit new york stock exchang trade yesterday, ibm close at $164.875 a share, up $1.625, and was the third most-act issu with 2.2 million share chang hands.earli this month, rumor were widespread that the ps/2 line was sell poor and that it new oper system -- the softwar that control the basic function and promis enhanc capabl for the ibm comput -- would be delayed. 
 the avail of the special ibm-design version of the oper system, which will give the new comput featur that maker of less expens compat machin can't easili copy, will be announc in the fourth quarter.mr. low also indic that most of ibm old person comput line will be phase out by the end of the year. 
 as foolish as the question may seem, rep. wyden bill is sillier still.w might avoid much legisl nonsens if he and other congressmen would learn a basic truth of economics: ani attribut of costs, and therefor profits, to differ line in a multi-product firm is entir arbitrary. 
 ford sale jump 14.1% in mid-june.a number of it car lines, includ the crown victoria and taurus, post gains. 
 gm may allow inventori to remain high as leverag against a possibl strike by the unit auto worker union dure contract talk that start in july.still, the excess of 1987 model crowd dealer lot could hinder gm effort to introduc it 1988-model line this fall, which is whi mani analyst expect more financ incent or bigger product cuts. 
 ramada inc., ad budget motel to it current line of midpric and high-pric lodgings, said it acquir parkmount hospit corp. and it 160 rodeway inn in the u.s. from a unit of london-bas ladbrok group plc. 
 after a three-year string of success in the european comput market, amstrad consum electron plc of britain has encount it first major sale disappointment.a spokesman for the fast-grow compani confirm that sale of an import new comput line are run below origin expectations. 
 unconfirm report of the sale setback, circul by london financi analysts, had wipe #280 million ($450 million), or 23%, off amstrad stock-market valu in the past three weeks.th comput line, amstrad pc-1512 rang of person computers, compat with the industry-standard intern busi machin corp. pc, was launch last septemb with great fanfare. 
 marcad group inc., an apparel maker, said it agre to acquir close held europ craft import inc., which make the member onli sportswear line. 
 no one consid the strong-wil mr. sarni a pushover.h win prais from analyst and shareholdera as a cost-cutt who has expand oversea sale and move the compani from slow grow commodity-typ busi into higher-margin specialti lines. 
 stauffer specialty-chem divis make lubricants, flame retardants, addit for the synthetic-rubb industri and catalyst for the petrochem industry.al are sector that exist within akzo lines. 
 american brand agre to buy acco world corp., an office-suppli concern, for $29 a share, or $602 million.th purchas continu american brand aggress acquisit of consumer-product lines. 
 though bausch & lomb argu against the recall, it said the court order wouldn't affect it financ becaus retail inventori of the solut are small.th rochester-bas compani said it had alreadi introduc an improv line of salin solut known as hypo-clear. 
 the dutch electron maker alreadi suppli lcd screen for computer, industri and profession applications.japanes electron compani have been produc televis with five-centimet lcd screens; philip plan to launch a line of set with six-centimet lcd screen later this year. 
 the famili of david grutman, a barco vice president, has agre to tender to the donner the 600,000 share it controls, barco said.michael donner said the famili hasn't ani immedi plan to expand the company, but will develop exist line of the business, found by the elder mr. donner stepfath in 1929. 
 most of the charg in the current period stem from a decis to halt product of a disk drive, quantum said, and as a result, it intend to dismiss 29 employees, or about 3% of it work force.quantum said it cancel the product as part of an effort to concentr on it core line of disk drive and develop of higher-performance, smaller disk drives. 
 among the more attract asset that could be sold is the mail-handl equip business.mr. boksen estim the line alon could fetch between $250 million and $300 million. 
 pennwalt corp. said it agre in principl to acquir a line of fungicides, insecticid and herbicid and their relat manufactur facil from le raffineri de soufr reuni of marseilles, france. 
 fleet said it also acquir the leas for equip financ offic in new york and agre to retain it staff of 40.providence, r.i.-bas fleet financi is a bank hold compani oper sever line of financi services, includ commerci and trust banking, mortgag banking, real estat lending, invest bank and data processing. 
 fremont earlier took a $31.4 million charg against third-quart earn to cover potenti loss from certain discontinu operations.moodi said it review will focus on fremont off-balance-sheet exposur and the adequaci of it reserv for discontinu lines. 
 a few interact toy are alreadi on the market.a line of "captain power" figur from mattel inc., for example, can exchang infrar gunfir with the villain in a new cartoon show. 
 he hasn't elimin enough jobs, mani analyst say, and he has also been critic for unveil some product too soon.for instance, ibm new line of person comput were introduc in april, while the line new oper system won't be avail until next month. 
 later on, it is expect to roll out operating-system softwar that would even more sharpli increas the process speed and would final let programm take advantag of some of the fanci new featur of the current hardware.then, by 1990, ibm is expect to announc a whole new line of mainframes, start the product cycl all over again and make it competitor play catch-up for a while. 
 advertis agenc j. walter thompson co., which has endur a string of recent account losses, yesterday lost pepsico inc. slice soft drink line. 
 the human group was pace by an 18% rise in it naproxen and naproxen sodium anti-arthrit drugs.th compani diagnost line show an 8% sale increase, while sale of animal-health product rose 7% from a year ago. 
 "this could be a terrif opportun for good value, mid-pric brand to reassert themselves," say nanci posternak, manag director of strateg servic at thompson."peopl still will splurg on a european car or the top-of-th line stereo system, but they may choos a lower-pr dishwash or tv set if the brand is perceiv as a good buy." 
 the compani also said the base price for it 1988-model car will be an averag 1.7%, or $195, higher than 1987 models.chrysl has been announc price piecem but yesterday gave firm price for it entir model line. 
 "you don't normal see price reduct in the model year, you usual see incentives."th compani price move are meant to increas buyer interest in chrysler slow-sel line. 
 c. olivetti & co., the italian comput maker, is brace for troubl follow the stock-market crash, but compani execut said they remain optimist about a reviv of sag profit next year.to speed it expect comeback, europ second-biggest maker of person comput yesterday introduc a line of power minicomput and a new market strategi design to increas it slip share of world comput sales. 
 analyst predict net incom will fall as much as a third this year, from 565.5 billion lire in 1986.one problem has been flat sale of olivetti five-year-old line of minicomputers.th new line of minicomput shown yesterday seek to boost olivetti minicomput sale by 50% annual over the next two years, mr. levi said. 
 a lawyer for elizabeth taylor co. couldn't be reach for comment.unilev group chesebroughpond inc. unit, which distribut and licens ms. taylor line of perfumes, said it wouldn't comment until it has review the opinion. 
 fidel invest is prepar a major expans of it year-old line of plymouth fund and, in effect, is hire it competitor as it sale force. 
 it tradit has sold it fund through direct market techniques, such as newspap and magazin advertis back by a telephon network.although the compani clear isn't abandon such methods, it is look to broker-deal to sell the new fund line. 
 that compar with $3.3 billion through direct marketing.to tri to tap that market, fidel last year round up a "pilot group" of 12 brokerag firms, financi planner and other to sell the plymouth line. 
 all plymouth portfolio are run by fidel managers, or what william t. ryan, plymouth general manager, call "the first team."in fact, the first plymouth fund, the special situat fund, was a well-establish fidel capital-appreci portfolio that was move over to anchor the plymouth line. 
 kaypro corp., which enter the comput sale market in 1982 with a line of transport computers, said it discontinu the line, and part as a result, the comput product concern post a fiscal fourth-quart net loss. 
 kaypro corp., which enter the comput sale market in 1982 with a line of transport computers, said it discontinu the line, and part as a result, the comput product concern post a fiscal fourth-quart net loss.kaypro said the line of transportables, which are larger and bulkier than portabl machines, was drop becaus of "competit pressur and the amount of sale effort" requir to promot it.th line account for onli about 5% of kaypro sale of $105.6 million for the fiscal year end aug. 28, a compani spokeswoman said. 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday, kaypro share close at $1.0625, down 0.1875 cents.sal of the kaypro transport line have dwindl in recent years, as smaller, lighter-weight laptop comput have gain popularity. 
 kaypro has focus late on other comput products, and in 1985 introduc it person comput that is compat with intern busi machin corp. pc at, market it primarili to small busi and professionals.andrew f. kay, kaypro chairman, said elimin the transport line would allow the compani to concentr on market of "a smaller group of mainstream technolog computers." 
 goodyear departur from thompson was expected; the tire maker had said in june it would leav thompson if wpp bid succeeded.although goodyear will move most of it account to new york-bas young & rubicam, a close held ad agency, thompson will keep the compani high-perform tire line. 
 in nation over-the-count trade yesterday, ashton-t stock fell $2 to $17.50.ashton-t cite strong sale of it multim word process softwar line and "rapid acceptance" of it dbase mac, a databas manag softwar product for user of appl comput inc. macintosh model. 
 the compani said it expect to bring to market in 1988 new product which it predict will "have a signific impact on the comput industry."a spokesman said the compani is plan anoth generat of it dbase line, addit product for the macintosh, and more softwar aim at let dbase user on a person comput access inform store on larger systems. 
 devilbiss account for $250 million, or about 28%, of champion total 1986 sale of $883.8 million.but the unit had a loss last year, and analyst have said it line of auto-paint system and health-car product didn't match well with champion basic auto-part business. 
 prestolit also will purchas build and land in arcade, n.y., where the product are made.motorola said that the two line no longer fit it busi strategi and that their sale is part of the compani plan to focus on high-technolog electronics. 
 sear also will develop a disney brand of merchandise.sear line of winnie-the-pooh cloth and accessories, develop under a previous 22-year-old exclus licens agreement with disney, has generat sale of more than $1 billion in the past decade, the compani said. 
 eastman kodak co. said it will begin market a new line of medic kit to be use in physician offic to test for pregnanc and various infecti diseases. 
 olivetti, europ second-largest supplier of person computers, was "tri to convinc everybodi that whatev ibm {intern busi machin corp., the first-rank supplier} can do, they can do better," recal custom john heaps, deputi general manag of britannia build society, a british thrift institution.th olivetti sale pitch succeeded: a few week later, britannia spent #4 million ($7.2 million) on a new line of olivetti person comput for it tellers. 
 the most power model -- which olivetti bought from scottsdale, ariz.-bas edg comput corp. -- crunch number about four time faster than olivetti exist "line 1" minicomputers.th edg model is expect to cost more than twice the 50 million lire of olivetti top-pric mini in it current line. 
 among other things, analyst say, it risk confus custom and dealer becaus it line 2 machin also may compet with minicomput it alreadi market in europ for at&t.th expect unveil of the new minicomput line, along with septemb introduct of a line of new olivetti person computers, seem to correct one of olivetti biggest problem this year. 
 ici has fold the agrichem busi into it ici america inc. unit, base in wilmington, del.then, in short order, ici sold stauffer specialty-chem line, to akzo n.v. of the netherland for $625 million, and agre to sell the basic-chem business, to franc state-own rhone-poulenc s.a. for $505 million. 
 yet mr. mcdonald has brought some surpris of his own.sinc the annual meeting, he has back off a rosi earn project and delay the introduct of a new comput line, and the compani has said it is the subject of a secur and exchang commiss investigation. 
 brokerag hous are roll out a new line of defens invest product and strategi to appeal to investor still quak from the oct. 19 stock-market crash. 
 last year, for example, the compani announc a "silver parachute" plan to help protect all compani employe -- not just execut -- in case of a hostil takeover.th compani also pioneer the open offic concept with it "action office" line of furniture.that line is be succeed by a line of flexibl offic compon call ethospace, which was introduc in 1985 and use remov tile to adjust to differ situations. 
 but the omni and horizon account for less than 40% of chrysler sale drop, and the addit of american motor car sale -- where year-to-year comparison are terribl -- for onli an addit 15%.the problem also lie in such place as chrysler midsiz lebaron line, which has had flat sale this year, even though it has been expand to four model from two. 
 commodor intern ltd., west chester, pa., said fiscal first-quart net incom jump 70% on increas sale of it amiga line of computers, but revenu edg down 1.2%. 
 shipment of two of the three amiga model began onli this year.mr. gould said sale also were strong for anoth line, it pc-compat computers. 
 but it task is formidable.th compani model 64 comput is mature, and it personal-comput line is up against stiff competit from giant like intern busi machin corp., appl comput inc. and tandi corp. 
 lexus cars, which will cost in the low $30,000 range, will be introduc in an increas crowd marketplace.they will compet not onli with establish luxuri car but with honda motor co. new acura line and nissan motor corp. plan infin luxuri cars, which it intend to introduc in 1989. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it upgrad it line of system/88 computers. 
 daihatsu will origin limit sale to eight western states, and it product line will includ onli three separ models, which the compani describ as in the high rang of "entry-level" cars.but it said it will eventu expand throughout the countri and may offer a full line. 
 quaker oat co. said it consid bid on certain of beatric co. food lines. 
 quaker oat co. said it consid bid on certain of beatric co. food lines.william d. smithburg, chairman and chief execut officer, told report after the compani annual meet yesterday that he interest in such beatric line as hunt tomato products, wesson cook oil and tropicana juices.but he said he hasn't decid to make a bid for ani of the lines. 
 i'm sure mr. silverglad inadvert overlook the fact that campbel has sold low-sodium soup for years.also, this past summer we brought out a line of "special request" soup with one-third less salt. 
 sale rose 29% to $59.7 million from $46.2 million.talley said the loss includ charg of $19.8 million from discontinu operations, reflect anticip loss in the plan divestitur of talley slow-grow consum lines. 
 the 12-acr facil produc chemic use in the person care, detergent, agricultur and oil-field chemic industries.n distil is an energi and chemic concern here; the compani has shed it distil line and has said it plan to chang it name, effect jan. 1, to quantum chemic corp., subject to sharehold approval. 
 the surviv rate for most new toy is pretti dismal.but tyco toy inc. has devis a market strategi for one of it new toy line that sound practic suicidal. 
 even though christma gift account for rough 60% of all toy sales, the compani is ignor the holiday altogeth this year.not until dec. 26 will it begin a $10 million advertis and promot push for it dino-rid line of dinosaur action figures. 
 moreover, kid will be itchi to spend holiday gift money and will probabl have a few present they want to exchang as well.robert lurie, tyco vice presid of advertising, say the post-christma introduct of the dino-rid line is primarili a market decision, but he conced that product delay also influenc the timing."about two-third of the line could have been readi for christmas," he says, "but if we had hurri it, the qualiti and authent of the dinosaur might not have been as good." 
 in 1986, ibm fourth-quart earn drop 48% to $1.39 billion, or $2.28 a share.most analyst expect much stronger earn in the current quarter primarili becaus of lower expens and new product such as the compani new person comput line and it model 9370 mid-rang computer.however, mr. aker said that ibm mainfram line -- the model 3090 -- would show onli slight growth for the year. 
 gm said the move, in addit to other things, help the compani ensur that worker keep their skill sharp.th auto maker said the cutback will be particular appar in the celebr and cutlass ciera model lines. 
 a medalist spokesman said the compani hasn't had contact with bsn in a while and that bsn is leav it option open by say it might seek control of medalist while lower it stake.th file said that should bsn increas it stake, it may seek represent or even major represent on medalist board, or sell certain line of medalist busi "not complement bsn current businesses." 
 toyota alreadi make about 200 corolla fx and fx-16 model car a day in with general motor corp. at a joint ventur plant in fremont, calif.th engin in both those line are 1.6 liter. 
 the company, taken privat last year by it manag and merril lynch, also concern analysts.publ document indic that the compani earn are far behind projections, larg becaus of continu soft in the trailer and contain busi -- it princip lines. 
 at a nation hardwar show in chicago, the compani recent exhibit about 30 new power-tool product and an expand group of accessories.among them is a patent line of drill bit call "bullet," which the compani hope will have the same impact as it popular "piranha" line of circular saw blades. 
 sun microsystem inc., which previous sold it line of technic workstat through it own direct sale force, said it is sign up outsid resel to help it broaden distribution. 
 the product on display here have convinc particip that the industri will maintain this year 30% to 35% growth rate for at least a few month even if the rest of the economi falters.vari product have suppli some of the miss piec for intern busi machin corp. new line of person computers. 
 las vegas, nev. -- unisi corp. introduc a line of person comput that bring it up to date with competitor and give it a basi for expans in this field. 
 unisi lost 1/2 to 33 1/2.the comput maker introduc a line of person workstations. 
 for some, that mean offer bigger-ticket items, such as a $295,000 lynx coat.for others, it mean sell x-rat products, includ a line of anatom shape chocolates. 
 there even a tape "hot shopper" program in new york featur x-rat product for cable-dish owners.a produc say sale total $40,000 in september, but the line of anatom shape chocol had to be elimin becaus the candi melt dure shipment to a florida consumer. 
 the "extended" version of os/2 includ featur that make it far easier for person comput to talk to mainfram and extract data from them.it was promis at ibm april announc of it new line of person comput and is a major featur of ibm push to lock up the corpor market. 
 whenev they appear, the applic will final bring to a head a simmer war of word between ibm and it competitors, notabl compaq comput corp. of houston.ibm has been say it think the new softwar will run faster on it new line of comput than on competitors', but compaq and other have said ibm was just blow smoke. 
 ast said there was no recoveri of profits, damag or attorney fee in the settlement.th ibm lawsuit against ast is part of the comput maker aggress legal campaign to protect it new line of person comput from clones. 
 technolog stock were mixed.intern busi machin fell 2 5/8 to 121 7/8 although the comput maker said the oper system for it new line of person comput would be releas ahead of schedule. 
 christian lacroix flashy, billowi cloth are as cumbersom as the gown mari antoinett ladies-in-wait dress her in.last week, mr. lacroix, the hot french designer, brought his fall 1987 line here for a chariti fashion show at the world financi center in lower manhattan. 
 electrolux, which isn't affili with ab electrolux of sweden, has annual sale of about $400 million.a previous reported, the electrolux unit didn't fit with chicago-bas sara lee line in packag non-dur consum products. 
 orange-co inc., a citrus grower, processor and shipper, acquir it first juic line by purchas premium juic of florida inc., lakeland, fla. 
 occasionally, he even lose the grace and simplic that character his best work: in one set of coats, the shoulder are so awkward pad they look as if the coat hanger have been left in by mistake.market the zaitsev line here should be an enjoy challenge. 
 the group also said it would consid file with feder antitrust regul for clearanc to boost it stake.th group, which has held talk with invest banker regard some of the possibl actions, said it would consid sell certain atlas line and properties, should it gain control. 
 singer is consid by analyst to be an excel takeov target.whil the compani divestitur of it sew line last year was hail by sharehold and analysts, it top manag hasn't alway receiv the highest praise. 
 meanwhile, demand for the omni and horizon model is veri strong.sal of the subcompact rose sharpli after chrysler cut their price earli in 1986, but chrysler had to stop build them last march when it began retool the belvidere, ill., plant where they were made for a new line of luxuri cars. 
 one general motor corp. plant remain down for model changeov this week.th doraville, ga., plant will begin output of a new line of mid-siz car late next month, a compani spokeswoman said. 
 the latest results, which exceed analyst earn estim of about 81 cent a share, indic that compaq comput sold well even as competit from intern busi machin corp. heat up.ibm introduc a new line of comput april 2, but mani of the model weren't avail in larg quantiti until later in the summer. 
 singer share trade at a 52-week high of $59 in september.though analyst hail singer divestitur last year of it sew line, they still consid the compani to be an excel takeov target. 
 northern telecom ltd. said it is form a new ventur with two french concern to manufactur and distribut it sl1 line of privat branch exchang in france. 
 third-quart oper profit from tenneco energi busi rose to $101 million from $77 million a year earlier.it manufactur busi had a loss from oper of $52 million, compar with year-earli profit from oper of $101 million, on lower result from it newport news shipbuild unit and a "significant" deficit at it case ih tractor unit, which post loss from discount a line of tractors. 
 even the compani corpor symbol seem to take on a new significance.mr. hope wife, mary, was eager to see singer jimmi dean, who has lent his name to a line of the compani sausages. 
 the book with croak frog and other talk charact have also been delayed.mr. kingsborough still expect diversif to bear fruit, and some retail report that a line of school accessories, call class act, did well late this summer. 
 among other things, the pact was spur by investor confus about the market valu of minstar hodgepodg of businesses.minstar sport line includ ben hogan golf clubs, head tenni and ski equipment, and swim gear. 
 j.c. penney co., new york, said it store will no longer sell home electronics, hard sport goods, or photograph equipment.th retail plan to expand it women apparel lines. 
 the move is part of a continu strategi to focus on famili apparel and other soft good such as jewelry, cosmetics, shoes, and home accessori at it more than 1,400 store nationwide.th discontinu lines, which still will be avail in penney catalogs, repres about $550 million in total store sale for 1987, the compani said. 
 it would not estim sale volum for the year.in 1986, the line contribut 5.1% to store sales. 
 in 1986, the line contribut 5.1% to store sales.th compani estim that sale from ad apparel line will repres about two-third of the sale of discontinu hard goods. 
 the merchandis change, which involv redesign departments, will cost about $65 million.william r. howell, chairman and chief execut officer, said the chang was dictat larg by consum priorities, as well as the profit potenti in apparel lines. 
 uniroy goodrich tire co. is have a "tough year" becaus tire shipment to auto maker have declin 22% and raw-materi cost have increased, patrick c. ross, chairman and chief execut officer, said.th company, form in august 1986 in a merger of the tire unit of b.f. goodrich co. and uniroy inc., also is be hurt by product ineffici that aros when it introduc 24 new tire line in late 1986, mr. ross said in an interview. 
 the compani also had "difficulti and frustrations" mesh account and data-process systems, he said.but mr. ross said that the ad tire oper -- some of which fill hole in the compani line and some of which are new -- strengthen uniroy posit in replac and original-equip market as well as in the private-brand segment. 
 research industri corp. said a feder judg here upheld it right to sell a line of open-heart surgic cathet in a patent-infring suit against it by minnesota mine & manufactur co. 
 research industri corp. said a feder judg here upheld it right to sell a line of open-heart surgic cathet in a patent-infring suit against it by minnesota mine & manufactur co.th judg reject claim that the line infring on a minnesota mine patent, and the judg order the minneapoli compani to pay $600,000 in cost and attorney fees, research industri said. 
 the tender share repres about 96% of lamaur outstand shares, a spokesman for the chemic produc said.th acquisit give dow chemic a new consum product line. 
 these product current use rayon, cellulos and other synthet materi as absorbents.th compani drop it line of dispos diaper a few year ago. 
 industri offici expect ibm to negoti similar accord on intellig network with other intern switch maker in come months.ibm new desktop-publish packag consist of a printer, a circuit card, a "mouse" point devic and aldus pagemak softwar for use with the high-end version of it new line of person computers. 
 "most fast-food oper aren't true to their origin product anymor and that strategi is working," mr. rockwel said.h cite a new line of bagel introduc by pillsburi co. burger king corp. unit, a superbar buffet that includ italian and mexican item at wendi intern inc. and packag salad at mcdonald's. 
 a second 8% cut in august took nova product down to 550 car daily.in addit to the nova, new unit motors, also known as nummi, build 200 toyota fx model a day, but doesn't plan product cut of that line, the spokesman said. 
 some celebr do commerci announc tri hard to keep it a secret.actress kathleen turner read the line in a fab laundri deterg commerci earlier this year, and her contract specifi that her ident remain confidential. 
 meanwhile, mcdonnel dougla corp. is conduct it own propfan aircraft develop program.th st. louis-bas compani believ the program could bring propfan-pow deriv of it current md-80 line onto the market in earli 1991. 
 the maker of life-sci research equip had a net loss of $800,000 in the year-ago period."th two main line that we sell are molecular- and cell-biolog products, and both are do realli well world-wide," mr. thompson said in an interview. 
 whirlpool corp. said it form a joint ventur with sundaram-clayton ltd. of madras, india, to make a full line of major household appliances. 
 alliant comput system corp. introduc a comput to fill the gap in it line between it high-end and low-end machines. 
 the execut expect the compani onshor and offshor contract drill servic busi to have a "modest profit" for all of 1988.as reported, the compani is considering, among other options, spin off or sell the drilling-servic lines. 
 other wonder if gillett is boost near-term profit by action that will hurt futur profits.gillett is tri to dispel that notion by disclos plan to step up market in it sag toiletri business, such roll out a line of dri idea antiperspir for men. 
 sale in the buick divis tumbl 68% in earli octob compar with a year ago.buick sold onli 778 of it 1988 buick regals, the debut model in the newli introduc gm-10 line that gm is hope will increas the compani share of the midsiz car market. 
 at&t will announc today a technolog accord with sun microsystem that is intend to help at&t develop a new line of high-perform minicomput and workstations. 
 ncr corp. said it agre to acquir the printer unit of datagraphix, a divis of anacomp inc., for undisclos terms.th printer unit, which had revenu of about $30 million in 1986, market and servic a line of high-speed, non-impact printers. 
 the agreement is also an admiss by at&t that it bell lab research arm need help develop commerci comput products.at&t is expect to use the sun chip design as a blueprint for new chip that it will eventu make in-hous and use to power a new line of high-pow comput use the so-cal risc, or reduc instruct set comput technology. 
 earn for the quarter were on target, analyst said."al segment of their busi were up in sales, and they had an especi strong gain in their prescript line," said painewebb mr. nordmann. 
 despit appl emphasi of late on the busi market, school and student still repres a big slice of appl busi pie.indeed, appl origin appl ii comput line is still a mainstay in mani classrooms, account for near 40% of the compani total sales, analyst estimate. 
 such a move would bring gm practic into line with the account rule ford and chrysler use.in addition, gm has invest heavili in new factori machineri and in develop it gm-10 series, a new line of mid-siz car that begin with the 1988 buick regal. 
 indeed, the latest quarter was the first in which the compani post a profit from it person comput business.ncr recent expand it person comput line with three new comput and a workstation, includ one base on intel corp. power 80386 microprocessor. 
 first boston mr. milunovich said, "if there a risk for ncr, it in how well the market will accept the compani new products."h said that ncr 7000 line of termin -- use by retail and the food industri -- and it 9800 mainfram "are sell a littl below expectations. 
 the restructur should be complet in the next few weeks, he said, and could involv more layoffs.in addit to concentr on a few profit lines, mcdonnel douglas, an aircraft, aerospac and comput compani base in st. louis, has been narrow loss at the inform system group through cost reductions. 
 a mattel spokesman said it is target the infant and preschool toy market for expansion.h said that while the compani will continu to make other unrel toy for that market, all new product will be disney brand and will repres a "significant" portion of it preschool lines. 
 western digit said sampl of the chip use in it micro channel copi will be avail in january, and commerci quantiti of the chip will be avail a few month later.initially, the compani said, the chip will duplic the function of the micro channel just in the model 50 and 60, the medium-rang model in the new ibm line. 
 to be a legal copy, a devic has to be slight differ from it model, so there are sometim gap in a devic abil to mimic ibm equipment.clon of ibm initi line of person comput took time to catch on in the market, part becaus of horror stori about overblown promis of compat with ibm equipment. 
 for example, the bulk of ibm model 9370 shipment for the year -- which ibm estim at 5,000 unit -- will take place in the quarter.ibm also say that demand for it new ps/2 line of person comput "remain veri strong." 
 the book follow mingolla and his lover, a rebel name debora, as the two powerful, drug-enhanc psychic are suck into the war black labyrinths, which reek of blood and history.th book is the fifth in bantam new fiction line of origin trade paperback fiction, which was kick off this past summer. 
 clone of ibm new line of person comput could appear next summer follow a california firm announc that it has duplic a key devic insid the machines. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc a line of telephone-switch devic that it hope will shore up it posit in the huge but fierc competit market. 
 ibm also said the devices, which basic replac it exist product line, will take up far less space, requir less power, and be much easier to modifi as time goe by and new featur becom available.armonk, n.y.-bas ibm is tri to switch the emphasi in the market to the ad featur avail on it line, so it can escap the price competit that has made life so tough for rolm. 
 american honda motor co. acura divis is increas base price on it 1988 legend car 1.5% to 7.9%.peugeot motor of america said base price for it entir 1988 model line will rise 1% to 9.9%. 
 the firm claim ibm has grant the japanes firm concess long deni to them.separately, ibm unveil a line of telephone-switch devices. 
 dealer and secur analyst said the move show that ibm overestim the demand for that product, but they weren't sure whether the move portend problem for other model in the new line.th model 60 is one of five model in ibm new ps/2 line of person computers, and ibm has said demand for the line as a whole has been extrem strong. 
 ibm cut the suggest retail price by $500, to $5,795 from $6,295, on the model 60 version with a hard disk drive that contain 70 megabytes, or rough 35,000 pages, of information.it cut by $300 the price to dealer on the machine, which is base on the intel corp. 80286 processor and is in the middl of the ibm line. 
 raytheon said result were aid by higher earn in electronics, particular in it defens business, and in it energi servic division, which was restructur last year.th compani said it major applianc division, which includ amana refrigerators, was essenti unchanged, while it aircraft product line "continu to be affect by weak market conditions." 
 clear they are get some of the cost out," she said.ms. landi note that ge in the quarter had a restructur provis equal to $54 million, or about three cent a share, relat to it applianc busi and certain consum lines. 
 the pepperidg farm divis of campbel soup is also tri to appeal to consum worri about heart ailments.it ad tout the fiber content of a new line of bread and note that "diet high in solubl fiber can help lower serum cholesterol, a risk factor for heart disease." 
 compaq comput chairman, benjamin rosen, recal an analyst blunt report the day after intern busi machin introduc a spiffi new line of comput in april. 
 "one of the most import thing drive the (stock) price up is compaq abil to increas the averag sell price (of their computers) ahead of the industry," say michael geran, an e.f. hutton analyst.also, some say compaq is benefit from ibm discontinu of most of it old line of person computers.compaq still make machin compat with ibm old line, and ibm move has "forc the world to go out and sampl the other guy product," say daniel benton, an analyst with goldman sachs. 
 softwar to take full advantag of the hardwar ibm introduc in april won't be avail until 1988 and later.mr. geran compar the situat to 1964, when ibm streamlin it line of mainfram comput and hand prosper to honeywel -- for 18 months, befor ibm bounc back. 
 h.j. heinz co. said it has reach an agreement in principl to acquir the pet food oper of california home brand hold inc. term weren't disclosed.california home brand pet food line consist primarili of can dog and cat foods, includ the skippi premium, vets, sturdy, petuna and glamour puss labels. 
 along with new menswear and children stores, limit plan separ store sell just it limit forenza label.it also will launch a line of limit lingeri that will compet with it victoria secret lingeri chain. 
 such move help cut cost as well as offer custom "more real choices" instead of lot of differ vehicl with similar features, say donald t. sullivan, former director of plan for chevrolet.chevrolet is also ad new equipment, particular in it truck line, which ford outsold in the 1987 model year by more than 200,000 vehicles. 
 "we think veri high of this," said roy d. burry, an analyst with kidder, peabodi & co."thes are both fair low return businesses" relat to american brand other lines. 
 digit equip corp., maynard, mass., and emc corp. agre to drop suit against each other as part of a settlement under which emc will be grant a licens to use some digit technology.digital, a comput company, su emc in u.s. district court in boston in 1985 charg that one line of emc comput memori product infring on digit patents. 
 westinghouse, a pittsburgh defens contractor, broadcast and electr product maker, said challeng had sale of about $275 million last year.th transact includ substanti all challeng oper and busi in the u.s., puerto rico and canada, with the except of certain busi in albemarle, n.c., includ it stab-lok line. 
 while mani compani usual see a 25% increas in revenu each september, he believ the increas this year could be about 35% and even as high as 40% in some cases.th reason, mr. erlap believes, is that corpor are through evalu ibm new line of person comput introduc in april and "an enorm amount of pentup demand has been let loose" as some custom go for ibm new machin and other go for ibm-compatibles. 
 gencorp inc. said it general tire unit will increas price on it replac tire line 2% to 5% effect nov. 2. 
 in those categori it will offer a rang of goods, from it tradit bargain-bas fare to item with higher qualiti and fashion, and higher price as well.th new thrust first becam evid two year ago, when k mart hire former "charli angels" star jaclyn smith to endors a new line of women wear design to shed the "polyest palace" imag of k mart apparel.in it first year, the jaclyn smith line reap $100 million of sale -- without reduc sale of k mart other women clothes. 
 ic industri has approxim 113 million share outstanding.invest sourc said other possibl bidder for ic may emerge, includ e-ii hold inc., the fledgl chicago-bas compani carv out of beatric cos. nonfood line in july. 
 led by such brand as old el paso mexican foods, progesso soup and whitman candies, pet has an estim breakup valu of more than $1 billion, analyst said.th compani other units, all profitable, includ mida intern corp. auto repair shops, pneumo abex corp. line of aircraft land gear and flight control and the bottl operations. 
 a 14-inch-long sleek plastic aircraft with curv wings, it even resembl draw i'v seen purport to show the super-secret lockhe stealth fighter.th littl plane is equip with a flashlight beam that can regist hit on other toy in a whole mattel toy line. 
 intern busi machin corp. will introduc an improv line of telephone-switch devic next tuesday, accord to industri sources. 
 in addition, he said, the unit carpet didn't fit into the compani strategi of push brand-nam products, such as it martex bed and bath product and burberri clothing.j.l. lanier jr., west point chairman and chief execut officer, said in a statement that the sale would provid fund to expand into more profit textil and apparel lines. 
 colorol also just finish sort out crown hous plc. mr. ashcroft sold crown hous engin interests, rais #57 million of the #87 million ($141.6 million) takeov price.to save the oper it want -- main tablewar line -- mr. ashcroft acceler his usual eight-week timet for reorgan acquir companies. 
 more recently, mark & spencer plc, britain largest retailer, paid what mr. ashcroft suggest could be a backhand tribut to coloroll.mark & spencer is tri to extend it st. michael in-hous brand to a recent creat line of home furnishings. 
 a mark & spencer spokesman said the major reason is colorol involv in it own shops, appar refer to a showcas retail outlet colorol open this year on london expens regent street, as well as colorol relat with other retailers.mr. ashcroft specul the decid factor may have been colorol move to start it own brand line of light and furniture. 
 sale rose 5% to $6.13 billion.critic has been grow among secur analyst that mr. stafford, whose experi is concentr in packaged-food lines, has done a poor job of manag pillsburi restaur operations. 
 six month after intern busi machin corp. introduc it new line of person comput amid firework and a rush of favor publicity, realiti has set in. 
 "most user are start to recogn that despit the hype, the . . . (new ibm line) offer no signific perform advantag over competitor (and) cost a lot more than most of them," william f. zachmann, an analyst at intern data corp., wrote recent in infoworld, a trade publication.k mart corp., for instance, investig the new ibm product but decid to buy clone of the ibm at -- the high end of the prior ibm line -- as part of a program that may involv 13,000 person computers. 
 much of the softwar that will take advantag of the micro channel won't be avail at least until 1989, and the onli way to truli test a copi is to run the new softwar on it.that issue, which is crucial to the fate of the ibm line, may not be resolv for anoth year or more. 
 unitrod state that the agenc said the concern procedur are now "in compliance."unitrode, base in lexington, mass., said it will resum ship product in novemb and will be back to full product of most of it line by january. 
 the new pathway clear some of the bottleneck of the pathway in other compaq computers, which are base on the design set by intern busi machin corp. with it ibm pc in 1981.the chang is signific becaus ibm made chang to the pathway -- which it call the "microchannel" -- in it new line of comput introduc in april. 
 mani school and compani make such purchas easier these day by sell new machin to student or employe and pass along volum discount of 25% to 45% that they get from the manufacturer.in addition, some compani that bought pcs and pc xts a few year ago and are now replac them will sell the machin -- the low end of ibm origin line of person comput -- to employe for a song. 
 in general, industri executives, analyst and member of user group say someon who want busi softwar will want to look at ibm-compat machines, and particular at tandi model introduc last month.a consum who doesn't know comput basic and want a machin that especi easi to use may want to look at the appl line, includ one of the macintosh introduc in march. 
 that hundr of dollar less than an actual ibm xt and onli slight more than most compar no-nam clones.ibm has stop produc pc xts as part of a bid to get the world to shift to the line it introduc in april. 
 but the risk of machin compat with the xt becom orphan appear small.xt-compat comput can run all exist softwar for ibm-compat machin and can be upgrad to run softwar written for an oper system that microsoft corp. is close to ship for the new ibm line. 
 for someon seek more power -- to handl a spreadsheet or a big data base, for exampl -- mani specialist recommend tandi 1000 tx.this comput is compat with the pc at, which repres the high end of ibm old personal-comput line. 
 but the compaq and ibm machin respond more to the need of busi than of home users.th ibm line, for instance, is design to make it easier to link person comput with each other and with a mainfram -- hard an issu in the home. 
 in ani case, the benefit of the ibm and compaq comput carri a hefti price: the machin cost sever hundr dollar to $1,000 more than the tandi 1000 tx."the perform of all the machin is pretti much the same, and the averag consum doesn't need the architectur of the new ibm line," say michel preston, an analyst at salomon brother inc. 
 it and the macintosh ii are aim primarili at the busi market and are a bit pricey, but their eas of use has attract some peopl buy for the home.becaus they have sold well, softwar compani have releas more program for the macintosh line, includ some solid busi software. 
 becaus they have sold well, softwar compani have releas more program for the macintosh line, includ some solid busi software.th macintosh ii, which is rough equival in power to the high end of the new ibm line, is overpow for the home market. 
 both compani will continu to oper separ outsid this country.san francisco-bas chevron for mani year has produc the ortho line of chemic products, which has had a difficult time in an increas competit business. 
 ibm will introduc an improv line of telephone-switch devic tuesday, sourc said. 
 to start with, microsoft is write os/2, which will enabl high-perform comput built around intel corp. 80286 microprocessor, such as ibm pc-at and most of it new ps/2 seri machines, to run sever program at once, and will make it possibl for sever connect machin to share the same program and data.microsoft is also building, along with os/2, what it call "present manager" softwar to handl on-screen graphic in a consist way for both person comput and ibm full line of larger computers. 
 the weapon would be launch from anti-submarin helicopt and plane as well as from surfac vessels.develop of the mark-50 began in 1983, as the navi recogn it would need a sophist successor to it current submarine-seek torpedo line. 
 "we plan to keep improv the product and build an industri around the product," say michael kolowich, lotus vice president, marketing.indeed, the compani has announc plan for two new version of 1-2-3 for the ibm pc line and compat systems. 
 compaq comput corp. is expect to introduc next week speedier version of it top-of-the-lin portabl and desktop computers.th move are compaq first product introduct sinc intern busi machin corp. revamp it person comput line in april and indic that compaq is follow it test strategi of tri to leapfrog ibm perform and concentr on high-pow busi computers. 
 "it'll give (the compaq entries) the amaz graphic that have so far been avail onli on workstations.and it should be better even than the improv graphic on the new ibm line," the sourc said. 
 it the first time you'll have a (person computer) with workstat power."whil compaq is improv it graphic to match advanc made by ibm in it april line, sourc said the compaq model won't mimic the most import chang in the new ibm comput -- the "microchannel," ibm term for the pathway between the part of the comput that actual perform comput and other part like the memory, storage, modem and printers. 
 in do so next week, compaq will be direct challeng ibm new line in the big busi market.that is a sign of compaq belief that buyer still aren't complet enamor of the new ibm line, and also, perhaps, that the new ibm comput are prove more difficult to copi both technic and legal than the old line. 
 the friend transact save lamaur from the hostil takeov campaign launch last month by alberto-culv co.at the same time, acquisit of the st. paul, minn., hair-car product concern give dow chemic a new consum product line. 
 the farmland to be purchas is develop for citrus groves, nut trees, tabl grape and a number of other products, castl & cook said.among the product ad to dole current line of pineapples, banana and various vegetables, it said, would be almond and pistachios, raisins, cherri and strawberries. 
 mr. murdock said that his compani see the growth of dole help to unifi "the fragment agricultur market industry" in the u.s.castl & cook will retain the morrow and hous of almond names, he said, and will review tenneco other line to determin which will be chang to the dole name. 
 the project includ sever expect one-tim transactions.profit from continu line will rise about 50%. 
 american home doesn't produc contracept spong or condoms, and it two oral contracept are face increas competit from generics.vli earlier this month introduc a line of condoms. 
 castle, a hold concern that also develop real estate, would assum about $16 million of debt in that purchase.th dole unit, which castl describ as the world largest processor of fresh fruit and vegetables, would add oliv and fig to it produc line with the purchas from apache. 
 igen biotechnolog inc. said it will build a $10 million facil to manufactur the compani clandosan line of natur chitin pesticid and organ fertilizers. 
 general motor corp. set the base price of it new buick regal -- first of a new line of midsiz car that is crucial for gm comeback effort -- 7.7% higher than the model it replaces. 
 that price tactic is expect to be use wide in the model year that begin thursday, becaus auto maker expect a sale declin next year and thus will tri to compens by boost profit per vehicle.th buick regal is the first of gm new line of midsiz car develop under the code name "gm-10." 
 the team machin would extend cray parallel processor architecture, which involv use more than one processor to simultan perform calcul on differ part of a larg problem.presum the machin would debut in the earli 1990s, after the cray-3 model from the compani other design line. 
 without 43-year-old mr. chen, the compani would have reli primarili on it founder and premier designer, 61-year-old seymour cray.hi machin differ signific from those on which mr. chen worked; late mr. chen line, call by the suffix mp for multipl processors, has been outsel mr. cray designs. 
 mr. rollwagen said that he has detect "no major fallout" from mr. chen departure, other than question such as, "what doe this mean for cray five year out?"cray now plan to unveil it y-mp addit to the mp line, the last machin mr. chen completed, earli next year. 
 nation theme, which has found that it hottest halloween costum are the one it design itself, also hope to appli that lesson to the crystal business.next year it will add it own crystal and pewter line to the item on this year shelves. 
 it is grant exclus distribut right to anoth compani for the first time.smith corona will continu to sell it full line under it own brand name in the u.k. 
 one of at&t most success intern ventur is convers systems.th columbus, ohio, unit has develop and is sell a line of machin cost between $20,000 and $80,000 that understand simpl command spoken into a telephone. 
 pathmark experi isn't unique.th problem often crop up in the household-clean and health-and-beauti product areas, where hefti advertis budget for nation line often make store brand look too cheap by comparison. 
 intern busi machin corp. is use the huge comput trade show here this week to tri to prove a much disput market claim of the past year and a half: that it ps/2 line of person comput realli doe offer uniqu benefits. 
 yet, even here, the impact is mix becaus there are fewer clone than were expect a few week ago, and they are main from little-known companies.ibm also unveil a new addit to it line of local area networks, or lans, which can lash togeth group of computers, even from differ makers. 
 the new product let inform move along ibm network at 16 million bit per second, quadrupl the previous rate, ibm said.also at the comdex show, commodor intern ltd. is show off two new comput in it amiga line, a less-vis but feisti rival to appl comput inc. macintosh in the market for easy-to-us machin with flashi graphics. 
 black and white generic good are dying.in one sign of the times, retail are replac them with a new breed of product that fall between the old generic and mainstream store lines. 
 "we want to bring privat label up from be a poor second cousin compar to nation brand to be on a par -- not just a cheap imitation," say david freedman, art director of the glaser firm.indeed, mani supermarket are trumpet in everi way they can that their main store brand are equal, if not superior, to nation advertis lines. 
 say a pillsburi spokesman, "whatev claim pathmark may make, we have serious doubt they can meet the qualiti of haagen-dazs."th biggest risk are with a new generat of premium store line that are even more upscal than nation brands.sever year ago, grand union, wit brisk sale of specialti import foods, introduc laurent, it own line of fanci fare. 
 nevertheless, with profit margin higher on upscal than mainstream store brands, mani chain are follow suit.a&p got into the act this summer when it start roll out a line of jams, pasta and other foodstuff call master choice, an effort to fill what the compani see as a price gap between cost import brand and mass-market nation lines. 
 a special panel of rjr nabisco inc. director question presid f. ross johnson and some top lieuten yesterday about the state of the compani businesses.th session was part of the panel "due diligence" process, as it seek to evalu rjr food and tobacco line and lay the groundwork for consid bid for them. 
 this is the strang tale of how the biggest name in muscles, nautilus sports/med industri inc., lost it strength.th compani was found in 1970 by arthur jones, an eccentr former wild-anim import who had invent a revolutionari line of exercis machines. 
 with mr. jone distracted, nautilus fumbl effort to come up with new product of it own.a line of machin for home use bomb with would-b consum and anger nautilus tradit custom -- health club -- which saw the new machin as a threat to their business. 
 they blame their troubl on mr. jone and on since-depart nautilus execut (their own people, not jone holdovers), who they say spent too aggress in the diversif effort.and they are upbeat about new product -- a line of exercis machin for handicap peopl and computer medic machin design to diagnos and treat bad back (in competit with mr. jone new device) and other maladies."we'r excit about the medic line," say mr. bonney. 
 one area of expans will be licens agreement with other apparel companies.thi year, for example, playtex apparel inc. licens the gitano label for a line of fashion bras in the $6 to $8 rang to complement playtex basic $15 bras. 
 he maintain that forstmann littl has act with "total integrity" and "we need no advic from you in this regard."separately, quaker oat co. chairman and chief execut officer, william d. smithburg, said he would be interest in ani rjr busi put up for sale that relat to the chicago concern own lines. 
 william e. stevens, execut vice president, proud describ how the compani has reduc the lineup of motor it make for it power tool to about a dozen model from more than 50.recently, a revamp line of under-the-cabinet spacemak kitchen applianc was given a sleek, european look that won a top award from the industri design societi of america. 
 he had come from beatric cos., where he head the consum durabl group.at black & decker, he found aging, ineffici plants, shabbi sale efforts, and an undernourish line of small household applianc recent acquir from general electr co. 
 the compani promis anoth breakthrough in such accessori within the year.similarly, it recent roll out thundervolt, a line of power tool driven by a batteri pack that a user wear on a belt.th line is aim at industri and construct users. 
 similarly, black & decker is face it japanes competit head-on.last month it sign an agreement with shin-daiwa kogyo ltd. to market a special line of black & decker profession power tool in japan. 
 it was also wrong.a franchise in ani line are quick to point out, they own their businesses. 
 mr. amerman said both of mattel core brands, barbi and hot wheels, are sell well in retail stores.th compani line of infant and preschool product featur disney-licens charact and it new larg doll, li'l miss makeup, are also sell briskly. 
 but nestl isn't without it worries.som line have been lose market share as competit mounts. 
 national, base in santa clara, calif., meanwhile, said it expect it loss to result from a "sharp decline" in chip book and sale for the current quarter.thi forecast surpris some industri analysts, who were told by nation chief execut officer, charl sporck, last month that all but two of nation chip line are profitable. 
 as part of the transaction, at&t will obtain exclus technolog and market right to harri vsat earth station that it current markets.it also will acquir all exist inventory, test system and relat equip of the vsat line. 
 seiko instrument usa inc., torrance, calif., said it has reach a joint agreement with kisho corp. of japan to develop and market a line of consum audio product for the u.s. market. 
 seiko instrument usa inc., torrance, calif., said it has reach a joint agreement with kisho corp. of japan to develop and market a line of consum audio product for the u.s. market.seiko, the u.s. unit of seiko instrument inc., said the consum product will includ a line of audio compact disk players, portabl radio/cassett players, person cassett player and home compact disk bookshelf systems. 
 revlon, a unit of cosmet concern revlon group inc. of new york, said the fragranc should be on the market by fall, but the compani hasn't decid on price or distribution.fragr connect with line of design wear or cloth manufactur have becom popular recently. 
 fragranc link with gloria vanderbilt, calvin klein, ralph lauren and other have done well, as has colors, a fragranc launch last year by benetton.but andrew shore, a shearson lehman hutton analyst, note that a success line of cloth doesn't necessarili mean a fragranc will do well. 
 egyptair, the nation carrier of egypt, place an order total $20 million.tot order for the engin involved, pratt pw4000 line, have reach near $6 billion. 
 but it is testimoni to race conservativ that the innov draw the biggest cheer touch onli the hors skin and hoofs.on is a new line of jockey silk design under the aeroform label by rhonda allen, a sculptor whose husband, joe, own horses. 
 as for one of a klein, uncl gene opin that she'd be back, health permitting, to win again."w could start a whole line of klein horses," he mused. 
 such brand as citrus hill orang juic and pringl potato chips, for instance, have struggled.for ralston purina, combin nabisco cereal line with it own line could rais it market share almost to that of general food inc. post brand, the nation no. 3 cereal maker.nabisco make shred wheat and cream of wheat, while ralston cereal line includ chex cereals. 
 h.j. heinz co., seek to expand as a world market of fish product and to broaden it pet food line, is divid it star-kist food inc. unit into two separ oper affiliates. 
 he also contend the $900 million-a-year can dog food busi "is show slight-to-moder growth and is suffici larg to be attractive, especi becaus it appear to be undermarketed."heinz, which has sharpli increas it dog food busi through recent acquisitions, current is test it own line of can dog food. 
 so yesterday fall stun some analysts.it came after the austin, texas, company, which design and rent a line of special bed for the acut ill, report third-quart per-shar earn of 15 cents, compar with nine cent befor an extraordinari item the year earlier. 
 sale rose 15% to $200.2 million from $173.9 million.commodor chairman, irv gould, said the latest result reflect signific expans in sale from commodor expand product mix in it line of amiga person computers, the ms-dos person comput compat and tradit c64/ c128d comput in europe, north america and australia. 
 the company, a unit of north american philip corp., which in turn is a new york-bas subsidiari of n.v. philip of the netherlands, was charg with claim that the devic made tap water cleaner, even though norelco knew that methylen chlorid leach into the water from a glue use in the applianc filter, the commiss said.th compani learn of the problem in 1982 from consum report magazin and develop a new filter, but it continu to sell the initi filter line for three years, the commiss charged. 
 but the center for auto safeti say the winnebago diesel may have the highest percentag of defect of ani vehicl sinc 1969, when the nonprofit consum group was formed.th center estim that of the 7,800 winnebago diesel sold befor the line was drop in 1986, one in two is a "mechan lemon." 
 clarenc m. ditlow iii, execut director, say the ratio of problem vehicl rival onli that of the diesel car made by general motor corp. in the late 1970s and earli 1980s.the winnebago diesel line is "one of the worst, if not the worst," of all vehicles, mr. ditlow says. 
 a year earlier, net incom was $87 million, or $1.39 a share.th latest period deficit reflect a $51.9 million loss from discontinu operations, larg from loss in the multipl employ trust group health line. 
 the compani said it acquir the pizza busi when it consum product unit, dial corp., bought the consum product divis of purex industri three year ago for an undisclos amount.ellio was dial onli line of frozen-food products. 
 instead, charl sporck, nation presid and chief execut officer, focus on the compani huge semiconductor operations.hi speech includ previous undisclos detail on the size and profit of nation various chip lines. 
 that price, he said, would be rough $350 million.sever analyst said mr. sporck detail comment friday on nation chip line were meant to pave the way for the sale of nas. 
 as manufactur get bigger, they are like to pour more money into the battl for shelf space, rais the ant for new players.but even the consolid food giant would still lack the clout to complet derail retail demand or to tip the balanc of power back toward manufacturers. (in the case of kraft, for example, the compani pay slot fee onli on it frozen food line. 
 in anoth uncharacterist move, digit decid to buy a microprocessor from mip comput system inc., sunnyvale, calif., to produc a power workstat that use the industri standard unix oper system.th decis meant cancel digit own project to build a microprocessor and a departur from it messag of compat across the whole comput line. 
 the quarter also includ a $14 million write-down for cost associ with the compani credit-insur business.th compani recent announc plan to discontinu that line. 
 in nation over-the-count trading, appli biosystem rose 75 cent to $25.25.appli biosystems, which pioneer the make of so-cal "pick and axe for the biotechnolog gold rush," produc a line of more than two dozen autom machin plus chemic reagent for the analysi and synthesi of gene and protein by commerci and academ laboratories. 
 u.s. shoe corp. and lesli fay cos. announc a licens agreement in which u.s. shoe will make and sell a line of lesli fay footwear. 
 term weren't disclosed.th line will be made in the u.s. and introduc in februari for the fall 1989 season, the compani said. 
 the fragranc foundat list at least 45 for this year and next."th market mission today is to be abl to steal share of market from exist business," say martin danielson of parlux ltd., new york, which will launch the joan collin line this spring. 
 mr. hirsh said he recent resign from the partnership.in addit to own the vanderbilt line, murjani last august sign a licens agreement with chrysler corp. to market the jeep trademark on a broad rang of consum products, slate for deliveri next spring.murjani also has major ownership of tommi hilfiger, a struggl men sportswear brand, and coca cola clothes, a sportswear line that a murjani spokesman describ as "fizzl in the u.s. but still sell abroad." 
 it premium price "metal bar" dispos shaver, which stretch the skin as it shaves, is now be shipped.b plan to introduc it first line of perfumes, which will be aim at the mass market, in the 1989 first quarter. 
 the huge japanes trade compani has been consid join the buy-out effort for about two weeks, accord to japanes bankers, but the compani hasn't yet made a decision.th banker say that mitsubishi is interest in certain of rjr food lines. 
 mazda motor corp., which just launch it first u.s. minivan, recent discontinu the wagon version of it 323 subcompact car.gm chevrolet divis won't have a station wagon in it new lumina line of midsiz vehicles, which includ a sedan, coup and an "all-purpos vehicle." 
 station wagon won't disappear, however.chevrolet will continu to produc the midsiz celebr wagon after it roll out the lumina line. 
 hallmark card inc. said it reach an agreement to settl a two-year disput involv a line of it card that resembl those of blue mountain arts, a small boulder, colo., concern. 
 hallmark card inc. said it reach an agreement to settl a two-year disput involv a line of it card that resembl those of blue mountain arts, a small boulder, colo., concern.a previous reported, blue mountain su hallmark for trademark violations, contend that it person touch line of card was too similar to blue mountain art products. 
 last week, the suprem court left intact a preliminari injunct that bar hallmark from sell 83 "person touch" cards.a part of the settlement, hallmark said it will introduc a greet card line with a new name that will replac the person touch line and agre not to infring blue mountain trade dress. 
 in boulder, bob gall, general manag of blue mountain arts, said the compani is elat that it creativ design are protect and that "we can get back to publish card without fear of be copied."mr. gall said blue mountain publish about 100 differ card under the line it had charg hallmark with copying. 
 the compani declin to disclos the potenti buyers.if it were to sell the building-materi line, the compani said it would expect to report a one-tim $10 million after-tax loss.th line consist of the 35-store lloyd chain of retail home-improv centers, locat main in southern connecticut and in westchester, n.y. 
 it a good fit."in the u.s., hoover vacuum cleaner line will fill a gap in maytag offerings. 
 chicago pacif also has a furnitur operation, which analyst note is an awkward fit with maytag applianc focus, and which like will be sold to help financ the acquisition.th furnitur line could fetch about $300 million, estim mr. ryan of merril lynch. 
 and as they got more involv in the spirit of the season, adult costum parti evolv as a tonic for bore yuppies.adult halloween parti have balloon 25% in the past three years, estim hallmark card inc., which introduc a line of halloween gift and novelti two year ago. 
 but he plummet almost overnight both in rate and sales, forc store to institut steep markdowns.retail are alreadi worri that last year high-roller, pumpkin product oh lantern line of grotesque, polyurethan pumpkin faces, is head the same way. 
 retail are alreadi worri that last year high-roller, pumpkin product oh lantern line of grotesque, polyurethan pumpkin faces, is head the same way.marc firestone, vice presid of sale for fireston & associates, which sell the oh lantern line to retailers, contend that "there is noth wrong with sell a pumpkin in april." 
 meanwhile, standard and poor place west point $80 million of senior debt on it creditwatch list and said the secur could be downgrad if mr. farley bid succeed or if the compani pursu expect measur to remain independent.for his part, mr. farley said in a file with the secur and exchang commiss that he intend to sell west point apparel, apparel fabric and industri fabric lines.h would keep the compani sheet and towel lines, which are the crown jewel of company. 
 moreover, the sheet and towel busi is consid fair recession-proof and provid high profit margins.in keep the sheet and towel business, mr. farley would inherit west point martex and ladi pepperel brand name as well as the utica and tastemak line that origin were develop by stevens. 
 sale at sear store open at least a year actual declin slight in the quarter, analyst said.and profit was hurt by higher markdown in apparel at the stores, and in sever line of catalog merchandis sear is tri to clear out befor discontinuing. 
 the third quarter is typic the strongest one of the year for toy maker becaus the bulk of christma order are ship dure the period.galoob said it saw strong demand for it micro machines, a line of miniatur car that retail for about $4.it also cite demand for a line of doll call bouncin babies, retail for under $10, that it began ship in july. 
 micro machin are expect to account for about 40% of galoob sale this year, spark renew interest in the market for die-cast cars, as plastic action figur for boy have fallen out of favor.micro machin are like to continu strong through the christma season, but analyst say next year the line will face stiff competit from other toy makers, includ new offer from univers matchbox group ltd. matchbox toy and mattel hot wheel line. 
 this was a nebraska where "carriag and conestoga wagon alik wallow to the hub in the black mud," where the arikara and the sioux and the comanch were "anger at the slaughter of the buffalo, at the steel rail point west."mani of the volum in the bison line are like "the lieuten lady," best seller reclaim from the past through photograph reproduct of earlier editions. 
 you'v creat such a clutter that i don't know what to use.'thi kind of confus will lend itself to some pretti negat posit for some lines." 
 lopid could have been a billion-dollar-a-year seller but now look like a $300 million drug, one investor says.ther talk that the new york investor ronald perelman, among others, might want warner-lambert for it over-the-count drug lines. 
 sale at sear store open at least a year declin slight for the quarter, analyst said.and profit were hurt by higher markdown on apparel at the store and on sever line of catalog merchandis sear is tri to clear out befor eliminating, the analyst said. 
 mr. trugman left to assum the top post at del.gener microwav instrument line is particular attract to del, a maker of high-voltag power-convers devices. 
 kraft reject philip morri $90-a-shar offer and said it is develop a recapit plan worth at least $110 a share.th plan, which would forc kraft to sell some line and would boost it debt over tenfold, call for the compani to distribut about $98 a share, or near $12.5 billion, in cash and secur while let holder keep their stock. 
 but if the johnson-l group were to win the compani with a higher bid, it would have to do much the same.th $75-a-shar offer contempl keep the tobacco line and the best part of nabisco brands, if proceed from certain asset sale and financ term allow it. 
 mr. jacob said he didn't intend to use the borrow in anoth takeover.th transact also call for volvo north america marin division, volvo penta of america, to suppli as much as 20% of the engin for genmar boat line through june 30, 1991. 
 ashton-t corp. and digit equip corp. will announc today plan to co-develop version of ashton popular dbase person comput databas manag softwar for digit line of minicomputers. 
 "our custom would like simpler train for user and consist program from the termin to the pc, to the workstation, to the corpor comput level," said henri ancona, vice presid of the busi and offic inform system group at digital, base in maynard, mass."thi will provid for a common set of databas languag tool for the whole line." 
 he is "very, veri impressed," he says, by the perform to date of mr. sege heir apparent, norman h. pond, who was brought in as presid last decemb and is credit with mani of varian cost-cut measures.whil varian deriv much more than half it sale from a divers line of other electron products, it fortun tend to rise and fall on the health of it semiconductor-manufactur equip group, which move in tandem with the volatil semiconductor industry. 
 digit equip corp. introduc two microvax comput systems, to bolster the low end of it minicomput line. 
 domen lacava, digit group vice presid for low-end systems, said the microvax 3400 has 50% more perform than an as/400 b40 "for onli 60% of the cost."th new digit comput will replac the upper rang of it microvax ii line, provid twice the perform for the same price, mr. lacava said. 
 a second button open the trunk remotely.code-alarm also is develop a line of home-secur systems, which it say will get some of the proceed from the new stock offering. 
 and in the test stage now are kool shots, a liquid-concentr version, and kool-aid sport koolers, for young jocks.lin extension, this is called. 
 philip morri is a master of it, sell it famous cigarett brand not just as ordinari smoke but as lights, menthols, kings, slims.if philip morri succeed in it bid to add a host of kraft brand to it alreadi huge line of general food products, consum could face ever more such slight variat on a familiar theme. 
 larg food compani alreadi vari their best-known product this way, but compani in philip morri busi are the real experts."tobacco compani are heavili into line extensions," say al ries, chairman of trout & rie inc., a new york market strategi firm. 
 "there is no lack of adventur or innov in general foods," he says, note that it has introduc 75 new product as a philip morri unit.in particular, he cite culinova, a new line of refriger entrees, and ready-to-eat jell-o pud dessert. 
 for all it potential, the philip morri strategi of accumul well-known brand carri certain risks.ultimately, stretch a brand to it limit with line extens can erod brand loyalti if manag tri to make the brand all thing to all consumers. 
 kraft itself recent learn that lesson the hard way, after it 1984 acquisit of the celesti season herbal-tea company.it aggress extend the line, market 34 flavor from cranberri cove to grandma tummi mint. 
 but put the celesti season imprimatur on mix seasonings, salad dress -- and even cosmet -- prove a blunder.last year, with celesti bare profit despit $38 million of sales, kraft sold the line to a manag group. 
 for instance, wisconsin canner stoke usa inc. is fight a david vs.goliath battl with general food and kraft for freezer-cas space for it compet line of single-serv vegetables. 
 intern pharmaceut oper gain in sever product areas.high u.s. consumer-product sale reflect gain from foot-car product and the maybellin cosmet line. 
 foreign produc work hard to establish themselv in the u.s. market and won't give up their gain without a fight.a was the case in some consum lines, foreign produc drove mani u.s. compani out of busi in some industries, such as in certain line of advanc construction, print and textil machinery. 
 last year, the food division, which contribut about 10% of coca-cola profit, post a loss becaus of restructur expenses.whil the unit has reorganized, cut cost and taken bold new-product step recent by introduc premium choice, a top-of-th line chill juic product, analyst don't expect the divis to contribut signific to profit anytim soon. 
 she current is field more than 20 endors offer from apparel, cosmetics, soft drink and other companies, say her person manager, gordon baskin.on possibl is a flo-jo doll line from mca inc. "florenc is differ becaus she beautiful, she excel as an athlet and she has flair," mr. baskin says. 
 the propos merger would creat a giant with $20 billion in annual sale and some of the best known trademark in america.th general food unit, acquir for $5.7 billion three year ago, own the maxwel house, jell-o and kool-aid lines. 
 both compani said order fell in the period, caus the more sober outlooks.taken together, the two concern make a broad line of comput products, rang from larg mainfram to mid-siz workstat and smaller, special person computers. 
 unisi has generat impress earn growth larg through cost-cutting, but it can't continu to improv it perform that way much longer.w. michael blumenthal, unisi chairman, said custom wait to order the compani new 2200 seri computers, which begin shipment next spring, and hold off buy it older 1100 line account for part of unisi order declines. 
 a. schulman inc., an akron, ohio, supplier of plastic compound and resins, said it agre with mitsubishi kasei vinyl of tokyo to form a partnership, sunpren co., which will make a new line of polyvinyl chlorid thermoplast compound for the north american auto market. 
 at kraft, base in glenview, ill., mr. mile has been credit with a string of success such as a "light" version of philadelphia brand cream cheese, and with introduc product and rais sale and profit in the high competit dairi business, which includ such brand as frusen gladj ice cream.mr. mile has step up annual volum growth on sever of kraft brand to about 4% a year from 1%, larg through line extens -- new version of exist products. 
 vw dealer in the u.s. hail the chang as a much-need breath of fresh air for an automot organ on it knees."i think volkswagen has a realli tough time compet in the u.s. and they'r go to have to assess how they can realist keep up here," said j. rick hendrick iii, a big north carolina dealer who sell vw volkswagen and audi lines. 
 last year alone, audi lost an estim $341 million in the u.s. even an infus of sever new model in the past year and a heavili market extend servic warranti program have fail to halt the slide.whil not subject to such jar problems, the volkswagen line has seen it once-domin posit in the u.s. import small-car market evaporate. 
 bausch & lomb inc. said it will build a sunglass assembl and distribut facil in san antonio, texas, to keep up with strong demand for it ray-ban line of sunglasses. 
 even the lowli wastebasket can be made over.king-casey inc., a new canaan, conn., design and market firm, interview 2,000 consum about their dissatisfact with wastebasket and incorpor the result in a new line of trash contain for mobil chemic co., produc of hefti trash bags. 
 "unfortunately, sale induc are becom a more practic part of the business."th gm incent are in addit to discount leas program that the no. 1 auto maker offer on about 20 of it 1989 car and truck lines. 
 unisi corp. said it introduc sever product in it btos line of comput workstations, includ a workstation, a graphic processor and software. 
 takasago result odor have provid the basi for two bath-product line -- includ bubbl bath and bath oils, soap and talc -- from avon product inc. tranquil moments, a floral bath line introduc in 1986, suppos relax bathers.it success prompt avon last year to unveil reveille, a citrus floral bath line with "revitalizing" effects. 
 waldenbook store display longmeadow book lavish and keep pageant book on their shelv more than twice as long as other paperbacks."we'v given pageant more space becaus we'r tri to prove some points, to show that you can creat a publish line by promot it properly," mr. hoffman says. 
 the compani proceed from the offer will be use for work capital, product develop and other corpor purposes, includ possibl acquisitions.th compani develop and sell a line of interact comput game for person comput made by intern busi machin corp. and by appl comput inc. 
 it alreadi sell about 300 of the garment a year, main for industri worker to wear under heavi suit for hazard materi handling, but also for race car drivers, armor vehicl crew in the canadian army, and isra tank crew who are put the suit through desert trials.th line is "mild profitable," say bill elkins, president. 
 mr. shaffer said rohm & haa had earn gain in the latest quarter in it largest segment, which consist of polymers, resin and monomers, and in it second largest segment, industri chemicals.but plastic segment earn lag behind those of a year earlier becaus of a gain on the sale of the compani kydex plastic sheet line in 1987. 
 a spokesman at general tire, akron, said the problem was exacerb becaus the intens battl among the global produc to increas market share kept price down.h said general tire had difficulti get price increas to hold despit tight suppli in some lines. 
 mr. arguetti said anoth reason for the compani perform was jan bell improv product mix.jan bell recent began sell a line of watches. 
 weight watcher intern inc. accus stouffer corp. of unfair tip the scale in favor of stouffer lean cuisin food line in advertisements. 
 in a suit file in feder court in manhattan, weight watchers, a weight-loss busi base in new york, accus stouffer of unfair use it trademark name in lean cuisin ads.weight watchers, a unit of h.j. heinz co., pittsburgh, also has a line of low-calori foods. 
 it one further step away from the wire supplier imag of the old radio shack."th agreement will give digit sale forc a line of low-priced, ibm-compat person comput to sell to big customers. 
 power-tool sale have been brisk, he said, and the compani "has been bring out home-run product in the accessori area, such as the bullet pilot point drill bit and piranha saw blade."h expect the compani to unveil anoth signific accessori line earli next year. 
 norman g. fosback, editor of new issu newsletter, say gitano is "attractive" at 18.start-up cost for gitano new menswear line and the unfavor retail climat are drawbacks, say mr. fosback. 
 well almost.earli this year, malcolm s. forbes, forb magazin editor-in-chief, gave her a purpl harley to celebr her new perfum line, "elizabeth taylor passion." 
 there are no other negoti take place for the time being."chrysl hope that the program will increas sale of it own car in dealership that carri the alfa romeo line by increas showroom traffic, gerald greenwald, chairman of the chrysler corp. unit said. 
 ford motor co., for example, announc yesterday it will offer leas discount to consum on seven of it 1989 model car and all of it compact and full-siz pickup truck through the end of the year.th move follow by about a week a similar announc from general motor corp. of special leas discount on about 20 of it car and truck lines. 
 chrysler new program offer custom a choic between interest rate as low as 7.8% and rebat rang between $300 and $1,500.the 1989 model car includ in the program are the subcompact omni and horizon and the compact ari and reliant, which will be replac start this januari with a new line of midsiz cars; the eagl premier and medallion, which haven't been sell up to the compani expectations; and the japanese-built conquest tsi sport car. 
 the new manag last month sold schering-plough it u.s. contact-len care solut busi for $40 million.stil on the block are cooper diagnost business, it plastic and reconstruct surgic product operation, and it remain optometr lines, which includ it contact len business. 
 but he said lender are "work hard to find a viabl way to continu to support this company."th former zayr corp. chairman also said regina has temporarili stop sell both it stutz vacuum cleaners, which in juli began sell through dealer to small vacuum-clean shops, and it more expens cambridg line of cleaners, which began limit distribut in depart store last summer. 
 digit equip will buy tandi comput and sell them under it own label.th pact boost tandi imag and give digit a competitive, ibm-compat line. 
 overall, though, scott has made headway by hold down product cost and avoid the premium segment of the market, where rival such as procter & gambl excel.instead, scott has stuck to it economi line, emphas basic consum valu such as more sheet per roll and more roll per pack. 
 mr. lippincott explains, "it isn't easi to walk out with one of those roll under your arm."in the past two years, scott has extend the jumbo concept to includ a line of paper towel and soap dispensers. 
 data general corp. introduc a line of high-perform superminicomput that vault it past archriv digit equip corp. in the midrange-comput perform race. 
 speed can be increas by ad as mani as three more central processors, produc a $1.5 million comput that handl as mani as 50 mips.bi contrast, digit high-end line, which span about the same price range, handl from six mip to 24 mips. 
 most vintner suffer even sharper declin as the industri leaders, seagram co. and e & j gallo winery, gain market share at the expens of rivals.in the past six month alone, california cooler, a unit of brown-forman beverag co., revamp it entir cooler line and spent $20 million to promot it. 
 the agreement mark a signific move by digital, the second-largest u.s. comput maker, repeat fault when it has tri to sell it own person computers.tandy, base in fort worth, texas, manufactur a broad line of comput that are compat with those made by intern busi machin corp., and it sell them through it radio shack stores. 
 when mr. arnault began invest in moet vuitton, there were rumor he would seek direct control of dior perfumes.mr. arnault has said he is interest in moet vuitton itself, not just the perfum line. 
 regina co. problem with defect vacuum cleaner appar involv more than it housekeep and housekeep plus lines, accord to a judg opinion. 
 the judg opinion said one reason for his leav was distress over the compani failur to correct problem with the machine.defect equip and a high rate of return in the housekeep and housekeep plus line have appar contribut to regina recent financi problems. 
 last week the compani announc that it fiscal 1988 result were materi incorrect, and that it expect to report a loss for it current fiscal quarter, revers previous posit earn project by donald sheelen, who resign as chairman last week.regina has made impress sale inroad in the vacuum cleaner busi in recent year with it low-pric model aim at discount stores; the stutz line is more expens and will be sold in specialti stores. 
 regina has made impress sale inroad in the vacuum cleaner busi in recent year with it low-pric model aim at discount stores; the stutz line is more expens and will be sold in specialti stores.a memorandum submit by regina about it stutz line of cleaner was order seal for competit reasons. 
 individu familiar with regina note that the stutz cleaner hadn't been introduc until after the close of the compani 1988 fiscal year; the compani has withdrawn financi figur for that period as materi incorrect.nevertheless, the difficulti with the stutz line suggest other possibl problem for dealer caus by faulti equipment. 
 nevertheless, the difficulti with the stutz line suggest other possibl problem for dealer caus by faulti equipment.in deni the compani request for an injunction, the court note that mr. geehr new job involv sell commerci equip that doesn't compet with regina consum line, and that there was no evid that he plan to disclos trade secrets. 
 ford motor co., dearborn, mich., said it is discontinu it merkur xr4ti line at the end of 1989 model year. 
 chrysler, however, will have to "struggl like hell" to retain the 11% car-market share it earn in 1988, mr. greenwald acknowledged, larg becaus it will have limit avail of some import model as it shift product site and add new products, includ the spirit and acclaim midsiz model that begin replac ari and reliant k car in january.lloyd e. reuss, execut vice presid for gm north american automot operations, predict the no. 1 auto maker will pick up "a point or two" in car and truck market share in 1989, part becaus of gradual increas sale for the compani so-cal gm-10 cars, a line of midsize, front-wheel-dr car that initi sold below the compani expectations. 
 the fee were first challeng by mid-america pipelin co., a mapco inc. unit.th case is signific becaus it is the latest in a line of suprem court appeal rais question about the separ of power under the constitution. 
 honda motor co. will introduc a super-luxuri car in it acura line within the next coupl of years, two top execut said, and later probabl will enter two market segment -- minivan and entry-level cars. 
 time mirror acquir dorsey press as part of it $135 million purchas earlier this year of richard d. irwin inc., a colleg textbook publish concern, from dow jone & co. dorsey press publish social scienc colleg textbooks.a spokeswoman for time mirror said the sale was made becaus dorsey press oper weren't consist with time mirror core colleg and profession textbook lines, which are primarili for cours in accounting, law, medicine, marketing, manag and economics. 
 advanc micro devic inc. said japan hitachi ltd. will use the sunnyvale, calif., compani am29000 microprocessor chip as the heart of a new line of medic instruments. 
 the japanes auto maker will discontinu the charad csx, at $9,232 now the costliest of the three model it sell in the u.s. and the most sporti daihatsu, with air condit and a premium stereo system as standard features.in it place, daihatsu will offer the charad ces at a $6,197 base price, lowest in the line. 
 if that is in the ball park, investor buy xerox share today would pay onli about $1.4 billion, or less than $14 a share, for the compani copier and document process machin businesses.in a takeover, ms. sloat think xerox business-product line might fetch $85 a share, or 6.5 time cash flow from operations. 
 at the same time, it hope to attract new buyer by introduc new comput that use industri standard microprocessor and the unix oper system.it is expect to introduc upgrad version of it mv line next week. 
 mani execut at ibm hold stock options, he said, and "a lot of option are under water there," have been award when the price was a good deal higher.ibm has undertaken a massiv cost-control program, so far reach into it manufactur and market line and involv substanti staff cut and some plant closings. 
 l.a. gear backlog at aug. 31 was $55 million, up from $9 million a year ago.mr. horowitz attribut the strong earn growth to increas demand for the compani shoes, includ it recent introduc men line. 
 to take on other compani at this time in our life doesn't seem wise."th compani has been ad to it apparel business, with a line of jean and plan for a line of watches. 
 it is be squeez by asian competit in the compani tradit office-equip market.sal of a new line of minicomput haven't met the compani projections. 
 in the previous fiscal year, porsch profit fell 31%, to 51.9 million marks.th auto maker said unit sale have improv in recent month and that it expect increas demand for it car and improv earn in the current fiscal year, base on modif of it model line and spend reductions. 
 donald harnett, graham-field chief financi officer, said the compani share market and custom base with lumex unit.th lumex division, with about $37 million in annual sales, emphas durabl medic equipment, a good complement for graham-field disposable-equip lines, he added. 
 the merger propos would involv subsidiari of a compani control by mr. picow and montgomeri medic as well as control therapeut corp., a close held compani to which a montgomeri medic affili has provid ventur capital.control therapeutic, a develop company, hold a licens for a line of polym design to allow precis administr of pharmaceut without the need for mechan equipment. 
 trade book are all book sold direct to consum in book store and through mail orders.mcgraw-hil note that the colleg divis strength in social sciences, human and foreign languag will complement it own line of business, account and engin books. 
 seven year ago, 90% would have found it unprintable.attention, imelda marcos: a new line of number made-to-ord design shoe from charl jourdan cost up to $4,000 a pair. 
 poor qualiti and an unusu high rate of vacuum cleaner return may have contribut signific to regina co. recent disclos financi problems.interview with retail and vacuum cleaner industri execut indic that sever of regina housekeep cleaner line have had high rate of return, bring into question the compani sale figures. 
 problem with faulti belts, weak suction, or other flaw have led to return rate as high as 30% to 50% on certain models, some retail said.target stores, a subsidiari of dayton hudson corp., said in the last month it drop one regina line becaus of custom complaints. 
 the plaintiff in the suit, which seek class-act status, are identifi as investor who bought regina stock between juli 19 -- when the compani releas result for it year end june 30 -- and sept. 20, when regina told analyst that first-quart result would be lower than expected.th major of the return problem seem to be with the housekeep vacuum line, which was introduc in 1986 and sell for $59 to $79, and the 1987 housekeep plus line, which sell for about $100 to $150. 
 but the old 1000 machin was discontinu last month, he said, and regina is in the process of introduc a new version.mr. dorn ad that other regina line haven't had such high rate of return. 
 offici at both compani said a return rate of as high as even 3% would be consid caus for alarm.a target store spokesman said the 332-store chain discontinu regina housekeep plus 5000 line, an updat and more expens offer than the housekeep 1000, after "at least half" were returned. 
 lucas, with automotive, industri and aerospac interests, has annual revenu exceed $3 billion.allied-signal, base in morri township, n.j., said in march that it plan to shed utica as part of a reorgan of it aerospac lines. 
 but a recent case suggest patent can be obtain quick enough to deter ripoffs.it took onli nine month for avia group international, a unit of reebok intern ltd., to get a patent on a line of run shoes. 
 backlog stand at two year or more for mani new aircraft models.th compani whole aerospac segment, both commerci and militari lines, account for 73% of last year sales. 
 the purchas price was increas from $26 million, a sum on which the compani agre earlier this month.car care market car-wax product under the rain danc and ralli brand names, and a line of engin addit and perform chemic under the no. 7 label. 
 the small health and beauti aid concern said it file list asset of $1.6 million and liabil of $1.2 million.it said it will continu to sell it line of solid perfumes, dispos thermomet and other products. 
 "the micro channel is our strategy," said bill lowe, the head of ibm pc division."we'v been consist say that sinc april 1987," when the ps/2 line was introduced. 
 "if we kept chang directions, i could see peopl question that."a new machin without micro channel would be signific becaus the micro channel is the ingredi in ibm ps/2 line that it has promot heavili as the major technolog improv over earlier pcs. 
 that becaus the intel 80386-sx is more power than the 80286 use in the recent unveil machine, even though the micro channel is suppos to be best-suit for power machines.ibm defend say the compani is mere tri to get back into a part of the market that it abandon too quick when it introduc the ps/2 line a year and a half ago. 
 "is it $3.50, $2.50, a dollar, is it negative?" he asked.mr. sheelen has been a visibl and outspoken salesman for regina, often boast that the compani would becom the leader of the $700 million vacuum-clean market by 1989, overtak household name hoover co., a unit of chicago pacif corp. regina had tradit been known as a market of lightweight "stick" cleaners, or electr brooms, but under mr. sheelen direct the compani has begun market a broad line of appliances. 
 coburn optic industri inc., a tulsa, okla., subsidiari of the british concern pilkington plc, say u.s. sale have risen 50% in each of the past three years.th compani recent introduc a new line of magnifi with thicker handl so that user with arthriti can hold them easily. 
 gm new companywid program, call smartleas and offer through general motor accept corp., replac a patchwork of leas program offer through gm six vehicl market divisions.to launch smartlease, and to give a shove to 1989 model sales, gm said it is offer special leas discount of as much as $1,300 over four year on about 20 car and truck line through dec. 31. 
  mattel inc., hawthorne, calif., name joseph s. whitak as senior vice president, marketing, with respons for it line of boy toys. 
 car market as the geo metro is have alter the way the epa break down the fuel-economi lists.becaus of the increas number of auto line that spring, as the geo metro does, from u.s.-foreign joint ventures, the epa no longer bother to compil it list of the most fuel-effici u.s. cars. 
 light truck are among the most profit vehicl built, with an averag gross profit margin of 39% on each one sold, compar with an averag of 35% on each car. (they are of particular import to chrysler.sal of light trucks, includ it jeep line of vehicl and it minivans, make up 60% of the compani pretax profits.) 
 compaq comput corp. introduc a smaller version of one of it power desktop comput at a reduc price, a move aim at head off potenti competit from intern busi machin corp., analyst said.th announc surpris mani industri observers, who had expect compaq to unveil it long-await line of laptop computers. 
 sept. 24-nov. 27.guggenheim museum, manhattan: "andi warhol, cars" -- the 35 paint and 12 draw on view are part of an extens seri of work that was to depict a centuri of automot histori base on the mercedes-benz line. 
 bob koski was name to the newli creat post of presid of christian dior sportswear & accessories, a divis of this apparel company.mr. kosky, 39 year old, had been presid of the men knitwear lines. 
 industri execut had expect the top job to go to william c. lowe, the presid of ibm pc division.industri execut and secur analyst have said mr. lowe, who was larg respons for ibm entri into the pc busi seven year ago, gambl and lost by prematur kill off ibm at line and tri to get custom to switch to the ps/2 line of person computers. 
 industri execut and secur analyst have said mr. lowe, who was larg respons for ibm entri into the pc busi seven year ago, gambl and lost by prematur kill off ibm at line and tri to get custom to switch to the ps/2 line of person computers.whil ibm consist has said it is pleas with the ps/2 line, a group of it competitor announc last week that it was produc a comput design to compet with the ps/2 design. 
 by april, suzuki expect to ship 20,000 of the car and 30,000 of the sport-util vehicl to the u.s.vers of both vehicl will be import by general motor corp. for it new geo line. 
 chrysler corp. said it will boost product of it profit jeep line of vehicl 20% in 1989, spend $24 million on plant improv and ad 575 workers. 
 cosmet giant este lauder inc. is make it first foray into region market with an unusu strategi to sell product design specif for the west coast and japan.th cosmet compani arami divis plan to launch a line of men fragranc next month -- call new west -- that will be sold in california for six months, and then market in japan. 
 chrysler corp. said it will boost product of it profit jeep line of vehicl 20% in 1989, spend $24 million on plant improv and ad 575 workers.sal of light trucks, includ the popular jeep line of sport-util vehicl and pickups, make up more than two-third of the highland park, mich., auto maker pretax profit. 
 "like a pirat ship with a hundr guns, hallmark armi of lawyer are tri to prove that might make right."th disput develop when hallmark produc a line of card similar to those of blue mountain -- both featur watercolor decor and long free-vers poetri with most person messages. 
 analyst said digit will have a problem tri to sell both the workstat base on the mip microprocessor and it older workstations, which are far less powerful."when they introduc a line, it will wipe out their vaxstat family," said ms. brown. 
 a good exampl is it juli purchas of cessna fluid power divis from general dynam corp.th unit, with annual sale of about $100 million, fill out eaton hydraul product line and provid an entri into europ hydraul business. 
 bever hill high school is hope that consum will jump at the chanc to wear the school toni name on their tanktop and shorts.a new line of sportswear and athlet wear, emblazon with the school "bhhs" logo, was introduc at a trade show friday in los angeles.th line, which will start appear in upscal store this holiday season at price between $20 and $90 per article, is the result of a licens agreement that the bever hill board of educ sign last year with twentieth centuri fox film corp., grant the entertain compani exclus right to the bever hill high school trademark. 
 the district will get 60% of the royalti from the licens arrangement.th clothing, made by great southern co., macon, ga., come in a rainbow of "trendi yet unique" colors, includ bright orange, hot pink, turquois and chartreuse, said shannon richey of san diego-bas luca enterpris inc., which is help to market and promot the line. 
 posh perfum are go to the dogs.snooti scent inc. of houston is sell a line of dog shampoo and condition that it claim smell like obsession, giorgio, polo and aramis. 
 mani in the industri had expect the vacanc to be fill by william c. lowe, the presid of ibm pc division, and say ibm decis will be a referendum on his performance.ulr weil, a princip at weil & associates, a research firm said he believ mr. low didn't get the job becaus the execut had prematur kill off ibm at line and tri to get custom to switch to the ps/2 line of person computers, introduc a year and a half ago. 
 ibm declin to confirm or deni that mr. gerstner was be transferred.it has consist said, however, that it is pleas with the progress of the ps/2 line of person computers. 
 the product rate could be cut back by near half, without jeopard commit it has with certain manufactur plant to buy approxim 2.3 million pair of shoe a month from them, mr. jacobson said."nik has upscal all of it line," said alic a. ruth, an industri analyst for montgomeri securities, san francisco. 
 in last year second half, reebok net was about $83 million.th earn declin also rais question of whether reebok is lose even more ground to arch rival nike inc. reebok overtook nike in sale in 1986 but has recent seen nike air shoe line erod it market share, accord to peopl familiar with reebok. 
 the compani product perform 3-d graphic for workstations, primarili use in the manufacturing, scientif and engin markets.ibm, armonk, n.y., will most like use the technolog in it ibm pc-rt line of technic workstations. 
 the 2200-600 model will be rough twice as power as those of the 1100-90 model they replace, the execut said.that will make them the most power in the mainfram line that came from sperri corp., which merg with burrough corp. two year ago to form unisys. 
 onc a neglig presenc in the u.s., the maker of chemicals, pharmaceut and fiber has quick establish itself in the u.s. chemic market through sizabl acquisitions.ov the past two years, it has bought the agricultur chemic busi of union carbid corp. for $575 million and a basic chemic line from imperi chemic industri plc for $505 million. 
 as an unprofit busi now, analyst estim it will sell for about $500 million -- or about half it annual revenue.th compani may also be consid write off the low-margin products, such as smaller tv sets, and find a joint ventur partner to help build up the more profit lines, such as large-screen project tvs. 
 when hallmark former agency, young & rubicam inc., began use emot advertis for it client american telephon & telegraph co., hallmark saw that as a conflict of interest and drop the agency.includ in the review will be hallmark lower-pr ambassador line of cards, which ogilvy, an ogilvi group inc. unit, has advertis sinc 1981. 
 this year redesign of the devill and fleetwood seri is more significant.th two model line are expect to account for about 64% of the 261,000 car cadillac expect to sell in the 1989 model-year. 
 the chevi nova, for example, becom the geo prizm, and like the other it will be sold exclus through about 80% of chevrolet 5,000 or so u.s. dealers.th introduct of the geo line mark the most ambiti attempt ever by detroit to succeed at someth that has larg elud the big three for 30 years: market so-cal captiv import -- vehicl made by a foreign compani and sold through domest dealerships. 
 the car won't go on sale until may, so chevi offici didn't say much about it.but they did say that the lumina name will go on a line of vehicl -- includ a coup and a sleek styled, plastic-bodi minivan -- that they expect will be one of the divis most popular vehicl in the 1990s. 
 famili often shun two-door car becaus it more difficult to get children into and out of the back seats.th famili focus for the line is one of the reason chevrolet decid to includ under the lumina umbrella it new minivan, nicknam apv (for all-purpos vehicle), which won't be avail until next june. 
 in establish product with consumers, he said, it easier to focus ad dollar and market effort if there onli one name to promote.chevrolet is use the same approach with it geo line of import car that debut this fall. 
 scientif micro system inc. said it sold, for about $10 million, most of the asset of it supermac technolog divis to a group led by the divis management.th divis make and market enhanc for appl comput inc. macintosh line of person computers. 
 reebok has gone outsid for market talent at a time when competit is increasing.nik inc., it chief rival, is hot on it heels, with the success of it air shoe line. 
 playtex famili make playtex tampons, dispos nursers, glove and tek toothbrushes.th hair-car unit, jhirmack inc., make a line of hair-car product sold in salon and pharmacies. 
 hyundai motor america said it rais the base price on it line of 1989 excel subcompact model as much as 3.4%. 
 armor all, an irvine, calif., maker of automotive-car products, said it will financ the acquisit initi from a combin of cash reserv and short-term borrowings.borden car care divis market car wax product under the rain danc and ralli brand names, and a line of engin addit and perform chemic under the no. 7 label. 
 motorola inc. and five of it former top semiconductor engin who it su last week for misappropri confidenti inform reach a preliminari agreement that could result in the settlement of the lawsuit.accord to a file with a texa state court in austin, the five employe who now work for ross technolog inc. of austin, agre to refrain from use or share technic and market inform about motorola line of microprocessor chips. 
 mr. harrison said mccormick doesn't have a specif target in mind.but he indic that the most like type of candid would fit with mccormick retail or consumer-brand products, which includ major line of spice and sauc mixes. 
 sourc close to both compani say that ibm has agre to licens some softwar technolog from next, includ the so-cal graphic user interfac that control the on-screen appear of the next comput and make it easier to use than some others.th sourc said ibm would like to use the softwar on it rt famili of technic workstations, a line that has been a sluggish seller so far in a market that itself is the fastest grow segment of the comput industry. 
 terri pillow, 35 year old, was name presid of chap by ralph lauren, one of this apparel compani lines. 
 georg ackerman resign the posit to pursu other interests.mr. pillow had been execut vice presid of merchandis for the apparel line. 
 although the risk mr. canion face are big, so are the potenti benefits."compaq would be the big winner" if the effort succeeds, say charl wolf, an analyst at first boston corp. notabl bearish on compaq after ibm introduc the ps/2 line, he now view the compani outlook as bright: "with their distribut and marketing, they would be the high-end leader in the marketplace. 
 in the latest nine months, rockwel had net incom of $626 million, or $2.34 a share, on sale of $8.79 billion.sal from the automot line of rockwell, base in el segundo, calif., will jump to $2.1 billion from last year record $1.7 billion, he said, ad that the compani view the growth of it auto busi as "substanti progress we are make in replac b-1b sale and earnings." 
 but both side agre that the new pc war could confus their custom and hurt everyon sales.a string of new pc product was introduc by ibm in a bid to beef up it person comput line. 
 mr. sugar comment came at a news confer yesterday to introduc a new rang of amstrad person computers.contrari to prior press reports, the new machin aren't fulli compat with industri leader intern busi machin corp. new line of person system/2 person computers. 
 the unit will sell air condition to ge and other custom under privat label as well as the fedders, airtemp and climatrol brands.fedd make a broad line of room air conditioners. 
 a lot of user were still tri to figur out just what differ ibm micro channel make when rumor began circul last month about a person comput come from big blue that won't have the vaunt micro channel.ibm has also been trumpet anoth new way to stay on the cut edg of pc technology: take out the old softwar at the heart of your machin (dos) and replac it with a new program (os/2 -- not to be confus with ps/2, the name of ibm new line of person computers). 
 this spring just two compani -- tandi corp. and dell comput corp. -- introduc ps/2 clones.lik parent of a new babi anxious not to upset their older child, they both declar that their ps/2 look-alik were great products, but not so great that their clone of the old ibm pc line wouldn't still be big sellers. 
 moreover, pc add-on boards, use increas to add speed and functions, have to fit whatev bus is insid a machine.ibm will also be make news today (just a crosstown bus away from the gang of nine) when it unveil the latest addit to it ps/2 line. 
 in the past that strategi has made busi nervous about buy appl maverick machines.but now appl can point to the scuffl go on in the ibm world as a reason to opt for the more stabl macintosh line. 
 mattel inc. is prepar to flood the countri with 582 million store-redeem coupon this fall as the centerpiec of a new market campaign.th coupon offer discount of $1 to $5 on toy includ barbi and other dolls, hot wheel speed shift 500 race sets, tv play-along wheel of fortun games, and a new line of disney infant and preschool toys. 
 other analysts, though, stress that the coupon concept may need fine-tuning."barbi is red hot and hot wheel has emerg as one of the fastest sell toy line in the country," say paul valentin of standard & poor corp., note that parent alway seem will to pay a premium for the hottest toys. 
 kayser-roth hosieri inc. plan to unveil today a new brand of pantyhos that it hope will lure department-stor shopper into the supermarket to buy their dressi nylons.cal burlington sheer indulgence, the hosieri line is an attempt to develop a new nich and bring some excit to the sag pantyhos market. 
 sheer indulg will be sold in food, drug and discount store and will be promot as "department-stor qualiti at afford prices."th line is price between $2.25 to $4.40, which kayser-roth say put it about 20% abov such mass-market pantyhos brand as it own no nonsens and sara lee corp. l'eggs, but about 20% less than sara lee hane and other department-stor brands. 
 david b. jones, chief execut offic of holiday homewood suit unit, said the compani has sign contract with franchise this year to develop 55 extended-stay hotels, which are expect to start open next summer.h predict holiday line would grow more rapid than marriott becaus holiday plan to reli on franchise to develop 80% of it extended-stay hotels. 
 seagram said dividend incom from it 22.9% stake in du pont was $52 million for the quarter and $98.5 million for the six months.th compani beverag line includ distil spirits, wines, wine and spirit cooler and juices. 
 "gm has lost market share in everi market segment in which it competes," said ronald a. glantz, an analyst with montgomeri secur in san francisco.h said gm success this year with it chevrolet beretta and corsica compact car seem to have come at the expens of it other car lines, includ it new intermediates, the pontiac grand prix, buick regal and oldsmobil cutlass supreme. 
 after month of hesitation, the european person comput industri is gear up to clone intern busi machin corp. struggl new line of person computers. 
 after month of hesitation, the european person comput industri is gear up to clone intern busi machin corp. struggl new line of person computers.start this week with the announc by britain apricot comput plc, most of europ major personal-comput maker are expect to unveil plan to sell machin compat with ibm person system/2 line. 
 the ibm spokesman ad that the european product announc confirm the compani view that ps/2 "is the way forward for our custom into 1990s."ibm launch the ps/2 line to regain market share lost to u.s., european and asian clone of it pc and at lines. 
 but expert say that program trade of the kind that contribut to the volatil of the new york stock market dure the octob crash is still a long way off.japanes brokerag firm are yet not allow to hook up direct comput line to the tokyo stock exchange. 
 the group is expect to develop what it hope will becom a standard "bus," the compon that handl the communic flow insid a computer, let the central processor talk to the keyboard, the floppi disk and so forth.th ibm rival are expect to argu that their bus will provid all the advantag of ibm micro channel bus, which, though arcane, the compani has market hard as the major innov of it ps/2 line. 
 eric zimits, an analyst with morgan keegan & co., said the compani has a 50% share of that market, and deriv more than 70% of it profit from it."ther has been a lot of specul that the irma line is due for obsolescence," said mr. zimits. 
 to be sure, a few compani are tri to use the olymp to make the transit from a subcontractor to an intern known brand.kukj corp. shift from produc nike shoe to develop it own pro-spec line of athlet shoe five year ago. 
 the effort, a major challeng to ibm, will includ compaq and tandy.europ comput industri is set to begin clone ibm struggl new line of person computers. 
 this is a big week for sun microsystem inc., as more chip and comput manufactur sign on to sun grand plan to establish a high-perform comput design standard for the industri to clone.today, sun and texa instrument inc. will outlin a sweep technolog licens agreement under which texa instrument chip divis will manufactur sun high-perform sparc microprocessor and it comput system divis will begin use the sparc chip to power a new line of computers. 
 chrysler corp. is attempt to jump-start the sluggish sale of it eagl premier luxuri car by boost cash incent 25% to $750.the move come at a time when rebat on most car are be reduced, and thus reflect the difficulti chrysler has face sinc late last year with the flagship of the new eagl line. 
 recently, mr. taki said he will invest in anoth seventh avenu designer, jeffrey banks, a 34-year-old menswear design who has run his own struggl busi sinc 1985.mr. bank chief success so far came when he was head design of merona sport sportswear, a hot-sel line of bold color knit weekend cloth that becam as trendi in the earli 1980s as jog suit onc were. 
 term of the agreement weren't disclosed.th first product introduc under the program will be a line of men and women sportswear, which will make it debut next march. 
 the masson reposit is the latest attempt by a major vintner to appeal to wine drinker increas sophist palates.earli this year, for example, no. 2-rank heublein inc., own by grand metropolitan inc., introduc a line call sylvan spring and is now roll out navall select to expand it presenc in fight varietals. 
 as the capac util figur indicate, the american economi is terrif at production.however, onc a product is off the line and in the hand of a customer, it seem that all too often the system break down. 
 within days, prime minist noboru takeshita felt compel to apolog for his country.but for sanrio, which produc and market the sambo caricatur as the design on a best-sel line of toy and beachwear, the consequ were more tangibl and potenti more lasting. 
 then came a secur and exchang commiss investig of the compani disclosur of certain financi information.later, it was the delay of a much-herald comput line. 
 xtc product inc., a larchmont, n.y., toy maker, file suit in new york, charg walt disney co. and dover handbag co. with trademark infringement.sinc 1983, xtc has market a line of soft toy under the trademark hugg-a-planet. 
 the valu of beatric asset sold so far, about $8 billion, still doesn't equal the amount investor paid for the company.donald p. kelly, beatric chairman, has auction off 10 major businesses, includ the compani coca-cola bottler and tropicana juic lines, in an effort to break even. 
 a special dividend may help save kohlberg kravi from possibl investor critic that it overpaid for beatrice.a year ago, some beatric insid boast that by sell off beatric remain major busi -- it line of hunt tomato products, wesson cook oil and swift meat -- the investor would earn a pre-tax profit that could exceed $3 billion. 
 the compani hope to get feder clearanc later this year to begin human test of the melanin skin cream and to invad the $300 million-a-year sun-screen market in 1990."we'r develop a new line of skin protect base on melanin produc by genet engineering," say sergio nacht, vice presid for research and develop and a biochemist who has special in dermatolog research. 
 the washington-bas consum group said it rank were base on inform compil by the depart of transport but not wide disseminated.th group analysi show general tire ameri classic line should last between 66,000 and 70,000 miles, depend on the size of the tire. 
 in fact, some of the tire that rank low in the center studi are special design for better handl and are use primarili in motor-rac sports.for instance, at the bottom of the center list were goodrich t/a r and r1 line made by uniroy goodrich tire co., akron, and yokohama tire co. a001r/a008r. 
 the center said neither tire should last more than 10,000 mile on average.but a spokeswoman at uniroy goodrich said it t/a r and r1 line are essenti road-rac tire that aren't expect to last long. 
 she said the tire are shave to low tread depth for competition.japan yokohama couldn't be reached, but industri expert said it a001r/a008r line also is a racing-styl tire. 
 armstrong is a unit of the pirelli group of italy.however, a spokesman for armstrong in new haven, conn., said the studi appar was base on date information, explain that it tru trac line was phase out in earli 1986 and replac with a line call coronet ultra trac, which was rate in the studi to last between 40,000 and 44,000 miles.anoth armstrong line cite in the studi was discontinu in 1984, the armstrong spokesman said. 
 oper system are program that control the inner work of computers.th new digit product further extend the compani line of equip base on the ultrix oper system, which util a standard develop by american telephon & telegraph co. that has been wide adopt in the industry. 
 for the full year 1987 the compani earn $16.8 million on $366 million in sales.dur the latest six month period, the compani said it had a 30% increas in unit volum in women apparel and children wear, as well as some select price increas in women jeans, sale from a new menswear line, and the open of addit retail stores. 
 kitchen applianc that hang below wall cabinet are market as space savers, so the thinner they look, the better.black & decker inc. new spacemak plus line is inde thin -- some applianc measur less than half the height of the model they replace. 
 but clever design make them appear even thinner than they are.thi week the line of appliances, which includ a coffe maker, can open with option knife-sharpen and a task light, won the industri design excel award in the "product" categori from the industri design societi of america. 
 the compani said it was the largest first-custom shipment of a multius system in it history.a previous reported, the new as/400 line is part of the comput giant bid to regain domin in the midrang comput market. 
 the new line merg the ibm system 36 and system 38 machines.do so remov the incompat between two of the three major minicomput line that ibm sells. 
 hallmark card inc., kansa city, mo., said it has petit the suprem court of the u.s. to overturn an appel court decis that has temporarili enjoin the firm from sell greet card that resembl those of a small colorado concern.hallmark had been su by blue mountain art inc. of boulder, colo., for trademark violations, contend that hallmark person touch line of card was too similar to blue mountain art products. 
 advertising: ingalls, quinn & johnson said it was design by gillett co. to handl the advertis and promot support for the test market of a new line of skin care product call myoko. 
 mr. kelli compens and share of the profit is more than $16 million, accord to beatric documents.littl remain of beatric except it line of hunt tomato products, wesson cook oil and swift meats. 
 a spokesman for the judg said friday that she had approv the transaction.th line and the factori where they are produc are be sold to hasbro inc. and slm action sport inc. 
 the reagan administration, however, isn't complet satisfi with such disclaimers.u.s. offici are check to see whether some japanes produc are quiet stash away chip for new comput line and not report these inventori to the miti. 
 in the past two years, textron has set up a new manag team for gorham, consolid some of it oper and elimin some of it unprofit items, such as stuf teddi bear and coffe cups, which it sold for sever manufacturers.textron said the trimmed-down line now concentr sole on the product and sale of silver spoons, fine dinnerware, lead crystal and silverpl holloware, for which it is best known. 
 mitsubishi motor sale of america rais by as much as 3.4% the base price of it galant and mirag car lines. 
 the price on the galant four-door automatic-transmiss model rose 3.4% to $11,819 from $11,429.the compani also said it rais price on it mirag line by 3% across the board, includ a $350 price increas to $11,969 on it most expens mirage, the turbo-charg hatchback model. 
 person comput industri execut are expect intern busi machin corp. to bring out soon a new microcomput with a design similar to the one ibm supersed with much fanfar last year.th move would be a surpris becaus ibm has been noisili tout the new design, which it call the micro channel, insid it 16-month-old ps/2 line of person computers. 
 but he said he never indic that had to happen at the same time a low-end machin got the 80286 central processor, to improv upon the less power 8086 processor these machin now use.th 80286 is current use in the middl of the ps/2 line and in the past was use in make the ibm pc-at. 
 ibm has alreadi prepar the market for a new, low-end person computer.it said earlier this year it intend to bring out a low-cost ps/2 built around intel corp. 80286 chip, which is current at the heart of the machin in the middl of the ps/2 line. 
 the distribut chain are long, the price are high and supermarket are reluct to handl high perish items."in the u.s., there realli isn't a well-organ refriger truck and warehous system -- how will they find the distribut capabl to support their king store with the st. michael line?" ask willard bishop, a supermarket consultant. 
 he adds: "peopl would be do much more of this if they could figur out how to bring it to market broadly."indeed, campbel last year withdrew it fresh chef line of refriger sauces, soup and salad from nation distribut after incur substanti losses, while general food culinova line of upscal entre is bare hang on. 
 although mr. sculley may be reinvent apple, it isn't clear whether his organiz chang and newfound vision will result in new breakthrough products.so far, the compani has been make the most of the macintosh and appl ii lines, both offspr of the job years. 
 kati industri inc. said that it complet the previous announc sale of it missouri-kansas-texa railroad unit to union pacif corp. and that it plan to record a gain of about $81 million, or $12.93 a share, on the sale in the third quarter.sel the 3,000-mile system, common known as the kati line, will enabl kati to focus on it consum product and industri machineri operations. 
 a trw inc. unit told paccar to suspend deliveri of paccar peterbilt and kenworth truck becaus of potenti defect in trw power-st mechanism.th two truck line repres about 80% of paccar sales. 
 in some of their current operations, they'v focus on auto repair and mainten products, realiz consum are keep their car longer.they are like to sell interco apparel manufactur and general retail operations, includ such line as london fog rain gear and convers and florsheim shoes. 
 turbin servic part made from the drawings, valu by ge at about $6 million, must be lock up in a bond warehous for five years.and turbin servic is prohibit from deal in part for sever line of gas turbin for five to 10 years. 
 for example, the lowest price 1989 pontiac grand prix will cost $13,899, up 10.8%, or $1,360, from the 1988 base model price of $12,539.the grand prix, the best-sel of gm new line of midsiz cars, will now have air condit as standard equipment. 
 in addition, it has notifi dealer not to sell paccar truck produc sinc april.paccar declin to estim how much the recal would affect it profitability, but the two truck line account for about 80% of the compani sales. 
 under the pact, fujitsu estim it will sell between 25,000 and 30,000 sun workstations, with about 90% of the sale in japan.th pact also allow fujitsu, japan largest comput supplier, to enhanc it exist line of microcomputers, minicomputers, workstat and mainfram with product from sun sun-3 and sun-4 workstat families. 
 atari corp. report strong second-quart profit from it comput and video lines, but they were part offset by unexpect high loss from it feder group unit, which it acquir last year. 
 sale for the period jump to $164.6 million from $70.7 million a year ago.th compani said it comput and video line perform strongly, as expected, but that it result were hurt by it feder group operations, a string of consum electron store it acquir last october. 
 nord resourc corp., dayton, ohio, said it will spend $30 million to expand it jeffersonville, ga., plant to make sever new product for it line of paper fill and coat clays. 
 even with the u.s. action, though, industri offici say shortag of the chip are like to continu becaus current product capac is insuffici to meet an unanticip surg in u.s. demand for the advanc chips.on the suppli side, the shortag are caus main by quality-control problem encount by japan nec corp. on it new dram line and hitachi ltd. slow recoveri from an earthquak in japan that damag one of it chip plants. 
 execut at k mart corp. were surpris last year when martha stewart, an author of book on lavish cook and entertaining, show them she could set an eleg tabl from item sold at the compani discount stores."w couldn't believ it was our merchandise," recal michael wellman, the compani vice presid of marketing, who is now work with mrs. stewart to develop an exclus line of household good for k mart. 
 mr. antonini say the compani suffer from a "malaise" becaus it had expand so much that it "growth opportun might appear to be limited."mr. antonini, who revit the compani apparel oper by introduc the jaclyn smith line in 1985, is tri to chang that, part by enlarg k mart store and play catch-up in computerization. 
 "that the custom we felt we were not serv proper before," say mr. wellman, the market vice president.aim at that market, k mart plan earli next year to start sell an exclus line of stylish kitchen, bedroom and bath item bear mrs. stewart name. 
 the plan to test as mani as 40 mckid specialti store in shop mall over the next two year is part of a broader effort by sear to revit it sag retail operations.th mckid store will carri nation brand as well as an exclus line of mckid cloth and toys. 
 price will be in the "moderate" to "upper moderate" range, the spokesman said.th mckid store concept is an outgrowth of sear success arrang with oak brook, ill.-bas mcdonald to licens a mckid cloth line now sold in 750 of it 821 sear stores.th line, which was introduc in 1987, is expect to generat sale of $175 million this year. 
 it also is tri to improv logist and make product more effici to compet better with german counterparts.it set up manufactur in local market with local designers, includ some lower-pr lines, instead of concentr main on make cloth in itali for export. 
 and it look to new markets, such as the soviet union and china, where potenti is huge but initi invest can be small.found in 1868 as a maker of ready-to-wear clothing, gft by 1987 made 60 differ line of clothes, includ some of it own design, which it distribut in 70 countries. 
 mccormick & co. is repackag it entir line of spice and seasonings, toss out it familiar red and white tin for fancy-label plastic bottles. 
 still, mccormick expect to rake in $15 million to $20 million in busi from new grocery-stor account this year.robert wunderle, a spokesman for woodbridge, n.j.-base supermarket general corp., call the line "much improved." 
 prime motor inn drop 1 3/8 to 34 3/8.montgomeri secur lower it estim of the compani 1989 net incom to $2.50 a share from $2.65 on a fulli dilut basis, cite an expect drop in interest incom as a result of the compani plan for fund the develop of a new line of hotels. 
 the group said sale of softwar for person comput made by intern busi machin corp. and compat makers, rose 44% to $1.39 billion, account for 76% of the market.sal of softwar for appl comput inc. macintosh line rose 130% to $192.3 million or 10.6% of the industry. 
 but can ge?crit say the fallout from mr. welch swap last year of ge consumer-electron busi for the medical-equip line of paris-bas thomson illustr the price ge pay for his style. 
 ltv also took a $30 million special charg on it exit from the medium and heavi militari truck business.ltv announc last month that it am general divis would discontinu those line so it could concentr on it u.s. armi contract for the hummer high mobil vehicle, which will be open for a rebid next year. 
 a consumer-health group accus an rjr nabisco inc. unit of mislead consum about the content of a popular line of fruit drinks. 
 a consumer-health group accus an rjr nabisco inc. unit of mislead consum about the content of a popular line of fruit drinks.th center for scienc in the public interest said it ask the food and drug administr to order the del mont food unit to chang the name of it fruit blend line. 
 it featur mani of the new york area lead politician and media figures, but mix up their job and genealog to such an extent that part of the fun is figur out exact who is who."famili politics" tell the stori of the surviv remnant of the daley family, the maker of a notabl line of car whose busi has fallen into disrepair and whose member are fall into the kind of financi condit that onli the wealthi could consid poverty-stricken. 
 ibm rais price on such product as operating-system software, which control the basic oper of a computer, and on big disk drives, which store data for mainfram and big minicomputers.th armonk, n.y., compani also rais price on it 9370 line of minicomputers, even though they have gotten off to a slow start, and on maintenance, even though competit for mainten contract has been particular fierce. 
 still, there were some notabl absenc from ibm list of price increases.pric weren't chang for ibm new mainfram models, it new as/400 minicomput line or most person computers. 
 a usg spokesman said the busi to be sold "don't fit in with {usg's} core businesses" and don't meet "minimum margin requirements."usg consid it gypsum, ceiling-til and dap repair and remodel line as well as it wallboard distribut busi as core operations, the spokesman said. 
 amdahl corp., play tit for tat with arch-riv intern busi machin corp., said it lop off 10% to 14% from the price of it mainfram computers.a previous reported, last week, armonk, n.y.-bas ibm unveil a new line of aggress price mainfram machin in a bid to undersel feisti amdahl. 
 use other data on her color and age, the comput produc printout with color recommend for "casual," "polished" and "evening" looks.noxel corp., which alreadi has computers, recent start an ad campaign for it clarion cosmet line that tout the machin abil to make the "right" choice. 
 no one, however, is predict a resurg in generic food -- the plain-labeled, cut-rat product that took over aisl of space in some supermarket dure the inflation-ridden 1970s.while such line will continu to be offer in relat small section of most stores, consult expect that consum will instead be look to an increas number of low-pric name brand and hous brand -- product that are cheaper than heavili advertis top brand but seem to offer compar quality. 
 beyond score point in that public-imag battle, ibm new line, the 3090 model s, is intend to give custom the improv in price and perform they expect everi coupl of years.th armonk, n.y., compani last overhaul it mainfram line in januari 1987. 
 ibm unveil a line of mainfram comput in a bid to win back market ground lost to rival amdahl. 
 the 1988 taurus and sabl model aren't affect becaus their gas tank are of a differ design, the spokesman said.thi is the latest in a seri of qualiti embarrass to hit the taurus-s line, launch in the 1986 model year. 
 last summer, the taurus and sabl model were includ in a recal of 4.3 million ford vehicl to correct fuel-lin defect link to 230 engin fires.ford has conduct five other safety-rel recal affect smaller number of the taurus and sabl line, as well as four recal to fix problem not relat to safety, a compani spokesman said. 
 retail thought the chang -- to bolder colors, busier pattern and higher price -- too much for the arrow man.for the most part, they reject the new sport shirt line, forc cluett to unload much of it to discount at fire-sal prices. 
 that lower west point net incom from continu oper to $7.5 million, or 25 cent a share, from $11.6 million, or 38 cent a share, in the year-earli quarter.cluett had transform much of it normal classic, plain-vanilla, mid-pric line of sport shirt into thread it hope would draw a younger, more affluent buyer.norm safe shade of blues, brown and gray becam more vibrant, and the spring line of arrow sport shirt includ a mix of bolder primari colors, busi stripe and multi-color madras. 
 moreover, in the confus follow the takeover, the design becam isol not onli from arrow custom but also from the compani own sale staff.last spring and summer, as they were creat the bolder spring line, the design fail to notic that both retail and consum were becom more conservative. 
 that shift intensifi after last octob stock market crash.cluett "seem to have had the line misstrip and miscolored," say an execut at a rival, who credit cluett mistak for a 15% to 20% rise in his own sales. 
 moreover, say cluett executives, the design skimp on quality.for one thing, the higher-pr shirt in the line didn't look much differ from their less-expens counterparts, say harold streitman, cluett new design director for sportswear. 
 and manag are on the lookout for nich markets.an example: cluett is talk about develop for the first time a line of shirt to be sold onli in california and florida. 
 but mani doubt it can beat out four japanes rivals, who control the market.moreover, sinc mr. mcgovern took over, the compani has crank out hundr of new product and line extens to cut it relianc on soup, which provid 30% of sales.but some like fresh chef, a line of refriger products, have been cost flops. 
 tandi corp., fort worth, texas, introduc four comput that beef up it person comput line. 
 the new 4000 lx use a faster version of the chip and will sell for $3,999, the compani said.tandi also ad a new comput use the 80286 microchip to it line. 
 toto, however, is go to give it a try.th compani doesn't have much to show for it 20-year presenc in the u.s., so it think a product that set it line off from the run-of-the-mil porcelain fixtur might be the key to success. 
 sales, which plummet to $8 million last year from near $35 million in 1984, are expect to hit $12 million this year and more than $20 million in 1989.less than a year ago, mr. kramer was import about 60% of his line to surviv and brace for the end. 
 the indianapoli compani was form last fall after ransburg corp. decid to pull the plug on it loss-ridden industri robot business.two entrepreneur acquir a line of ransburg weld robots. 
 miniscrib corp. said it reach an agreement call for computerland corp. to carri a line of miniscrib hard disk drive in it retail stores. 
 sale rose to $135.8 million from $63.2 million.ast cite it grow personal-comput lines. 
 the compani cite higher unit sale growth in most product lines, particular in intern markets; a weaker dollar, and inclus of the result of alkaril chemic ltd., which gaf acquir in the fourth quarter of 1987.earn from building-materi line fell 13% to $9.1 million, though sale rose 17% to $119.5 million. 
 develop of sophist comput data base is fuel telemarket growth, say the confer board earl bailey.briefs: a line of shoe for pregnant women from thorp shoe is call "o.b. 
 the compani bought back 21 million common share in a "dutch auction," and had 239.1 million share outstand as of june 30, compar with 250.9 million a year ago.oper profit in rjr food busi climb 14%, to $271 million from $238 million, spark by strong volum gain in the nabisco brand cooki and cracker line and in some of the specialti product of it groceri business. 
 american brand inc., old greenwich, conn., report second-quart earn rose 44% as sale advanc 27%, cite the strength in it core tobacco and distilled-spirit lines. 
 pfizer, new york, said sale rose 8.9% to $1.34 billion from $1.23 billion, reflect gain in all five of it busi segments.sal rose 9% for health-car lines, 13% for agriculture, 12% for consum products, 8% for materi scienc and 4% for specialti chemicals. 
 last year, the nation second-largest retail hire martha stewart, an author of book on lavish cook and entertaining, as a celebr spokeswoman.it is now develop an exclus line of household merchandis that bear her name. 
 it is now develop an exclus line of household merchandis that bear her name.chicago-bas sears, roebuck & co., meanwhile, is sell a line of mckid cloth under a licens arrang with mcdonald corp. and is develop other children product under a similar agreement with walt disney co. 
 a north carolina auto dealer plan to use the japanese-styl "hous call" method to sell toyota motor corp. new line of luxuri car in the u.s. 
 a north carolina auto dealer plan to use the japanese-styl "hous call" method to sell toyota motor corp. new line of luxuri car in the u.s.rick hendrick iii, who run one of the nation largest multifranchis "megadealerships" out of charlotte, n.c., said he plan to sell toyota new lexus line of upscal car by use the sale techniqu in some north and south carolina markets. 
 warner-lambert co., morri plains, n.j., said second-quart net incom grew 13%, reflect continu strength in it line of prescript and over-the-count pharmaceuticals, gum and mints. 
 storag technolog corp. said it unveil a new line of impact printer capabl of print between 2,100 and 5,000 line a minute. 
 mr. kobayashi say he hasn't had a vacat in 20 years.th major compani contract out their less-profit and specialti line to such "pappa-mamma" factories, which contitut more than half the industry. 
 hitachi say it alreadi lose money make appliances, and the whole industri "is veri exposed," say yutaka sugiyama, a nomura research analyst.battl the import invasion, japanes compani are move quick into high-tech, high-value-ad lines. 
 home shop network inc. said it hsn health care servic inc. unit has sign an agreement with spiegel inc. to joint market a line of vitamins, miner and other health-car products. 
 industri chemic profit rose 6% to $14.2 million from $13.3 million, while agricultur chemic profit more than doubl to $9.4 million from $4.5 million.plast profit remain flat becaus of the sale of the kydex rigid-sheet plastic line last year. 
 now the maker of beretta, the gun, are su the maker of beretta, the hot-sel car, for $250 million in damag in a trademark infring suit file yesterday in feder court in manhattan.fabbrica d'armi p. beretta s.p.a. said yesterday that gm use of the beretta name on a line of compact car "is an affront not onli to the beretta corporation, but also to the beretta family." 
 analyst said the test appear to be the most rigor competit test yet run.however, they note that ibm has recent introduc a line of midrang computers, the as/400, for which digit extrapol perform instead of measur actual machines. 
 boc group plc agre to buy the vacuum product divis of varian associ inc. for $65.8 million.th windlesham, england, maker of industri gase and health-car product said it will integr varian vacuum product line into boc edward high vacuum intern unit, base in london. 
 general motor corp. said it will lay off indefinit 800 employe at it doraville, ga., assembl plant -- a further indic of slow sale of an import line of new mid-siz cars. 
 however, the case has been cloud recent becaus kodak is seek to stay the infring rule on the ground that the judg had a potenti financi interest in the outcome.polaroid entri into the conventional-film busi will put it into competit with kodak in a major photographi market for the first time sinc kodak drop it instant camera line as a result of the patent decision. 
 daniel bricklin, who as the co-author of the visicalc softwar program help launch the person computer, said he is sell off his latest softwar line rather than build anoth company. 
 the payoff from this level of invest were obvious last year with attack -- an "enzymatic," concentr laundri deterg that took japan by storm, come out of nowher to give kao a 40.5% share of japan deterg market, up 7.1 percentag point from the year before.th focus on r&d is similar trumpet with kao bior line of skin ceam and it sofina cosmetics, both of which are expect to be broad market in the u.s. eventually. 
 whether or not kao product actual repres scientif breakthroughs, the compani has been abl to success market them in japan by sheer weight of advertis dollars.accord to tokyo-bas dentsu inc., the world biggest ad agency, kao spent 35.4 billion yen on advertis in it last fiscal year, put it ahead of toyota motor corp., nissan motor co., honda motor co. and lion corp., kao major competitor in some lines. 
 byte magazin pose that question to 5,000 attende of a recent trade show.th top vote-getter, with 32%: os/2, the system insid intern busi machin corp. new line of person computers.but dos, the system insid ibm previous line, trail close behind with 30%, suggest a big chunk of the industri is still resist ibm push for os/2. 
 such a reaction would be avoided, however, if onli the donor stem cell were transplanted.th stem cell wouldn't attack the recipi tissu but, instead, would migrat to various part of the recipi bodi and churn out a complet line of progeni blood cell that would be compat with the recipi body. 
 the rang of special servic now includ rack-and-pinon steer system maintenance, truck and van wheel alignment, fuel inject clean and suspens system repairs.to supplement it inexpensive, private-label line of cornel tire and to attract upscal customers, the compani now stock such brand as bridgestone, goodyear and goodrich.in addition, pep boy is carri raybestos, a more expens brand of brakes, and a line of lifetime-warranti part call true blue. 
 nissan motor corp. u.s.a. chose hill, holliday, connors, cosmopulo inc. friday to creat advertis for it new infin line of luxuri car that are schedul for introduct in 1989. 
 the agenc also "pick the brains" of sever journalist who write about cars, and conduct focus group in four differ market to explor consum feel about the import market, the spokesman said.nissan infin line will be anoth entrant in the increas crowd luxury-car market. 
 carter-wallac share amount to over 50% of the total market.when carter-wallace, a maker of pharmaceuticals, toiletri and cosmetics, acquir the trojan line from young drug product corp. back in 1985, condom sale were in the doldrums. 
 britain plan to elimin all glass contain from retail store by 1989 is spur demand for european plastic beverag containers, a market in which lawson mardon has a 42% share.mr. tapp said the rigid plastic group should continu to benefit from grow demand for it pet line of plastic containers, made from polyethylen terephthalate, which had sale of c$49 million last year. 
 in 1987, the group had oper incom of c$20.7 million on sale of c$224 million.mr. tapp said the group is emphas special products, such as it carden line of fold cartons, which combin plastic and cardboard materials. 
 eight of the farm credit system 12 region bank for cooper vote to merg into a singl nation bank with $9.3 billion in assets.th new consolid bank, which will begin oper jan. 1 in denver, will be author to provid a full line of financi servic to agricultur cooper and rural util anywher in the u.s. 
 the compani said the shortag hasn't interrupt shipment of exist products.a previous reported, however, hewlett-packard has delay sinc march introduct of a new model of it vectra line of offic person computers, "sole becaus we knew we wouldn't be abl to get suffici chip to produc it." 
 buick has offer option-packag discount on the third gm-10 model, the regal, for the past four months.th incent to spur sale of those new midsiz cars, consid crucial to gm turnaround in sales, come as the no. 1 auto maker is fine-tun incent across it model line to balanc expect demand with product plan for the rest of the model year. 
 apparently, the onli other rebat that match yugo in scale is audi of america inc. $4,000 rebat on it $22,180 audi 5000 models.that is an acknowledg fire-sal for a model scar by alleg of unintend acceleration, and the company, a unit of volkswagen ag, is discontinu that line. 
 "we'r so broad base across the economi that we just reflect what happening," mr. frankel said.aceto line of chemic use in dye and pigment have done "particular well this year," mr. frankel said, becaus of the strong demand for color ink use in magazin and newspapers. 
 he said the move was made possibl by technolog chang that allow for more autom of manufactur and caus a shrinkag in the size of the product be manufactured.a part of the consolidation, ibm will phase out it personal-comput manufactur oper in boca raton, fla., over the next 12 month and move them to raleigh, n.c., where the low-end model of ibm line are now produced. 
 hill holliday will be propel even further up in the rank of u.s. ad agenc if it win the $60 million account of los angeles-bas nissan motor corp. u.s.a. infin division.win would also take the sting from the agenc failur in may to captur general motor corp. $100 million account for it new saturn line. 
 mr. napl said he expect "pocket of strength and weaknesses" to continu in the busi dure the remain six months.h said the growth rate in budget furnitur has slow sinc last year, while this year growth rate in the x-acto line is stronger. 
 he said the compani is "veri interested" in ad appl macintosh comput product to it lineup eventually, but no talk with the manufactur about such an arrang are current under way.in addition, offer a line of copier machin and facsimil equip "would make sense," he said. 
 it consum food group report a 5.8% sale gain, to $3.56 billion, and pre-charg earn of $280.5 million, a 6% increase.but for the fourth quarter, oper profit declin 2% to $51.2 million, larg becaus of continu weak in frozen pizza and seafood and hefti introductori cost for a line of green giant frozen veget products. 
 "i'm not sure you want to freshen your breath with the same stuff you use to freshen your refrigerator."but church & dwight believ line extens like the toothpast are critic to arm & hammer growth. 
 church & dwight execut disagre with mr. trout assessment.in fact, the compani plan more personal-car product that, like the dental-car line, will carri the arm & hammer name. 
 in a number of them, say ms. bluhm, "the write isn't veri good, the color isn't good, the pictur are low budget, they have a poor plot -- a formula kind of thing."still, parent buy some 30 million copi of the classic littl golden line everi year. 
 the suit were file in los angel by sabl communic of california inc., a unit of carlin communic inc., and in new york by a group name the consent adult telephon right association.marketing: eastman kodak co. verbatim corp. introduc a line of color comput diskettes, double-sid and double-density, to help organ files. 
 mr. ross say manufactur haven't chang their rule of thumb of hold defect garment to less than 1% of the total produced, and he say they are still larg meet that goal.complain about a declin in qualiti has long been a favorit consum pastime, but custom are becom particular vocal these day about poor workmanship in higher-pr lines, say paul d. campbell, a market research in minneapoli who track consum attitud for retailers. 
 world-wid manufactur compound the problem.cloth from the same line often is produc in sever countries, make it difficult for apparel compani to offer good of consist quality. 
 dmi furnitur inc. said it reopen an assembl facil in huntingburg, ind., that had been idl sinc 1980.the 17,000-square-foot plant, which began product june 1, will assembl and finish wooden chair for the compani residenti desk line. 
 ibm introduc a line of midrang comput in a high-stak effort to regain it domin in that market. 
 but he say analyst and other "tend to overlook the fact" that more exercise-consci older peopl are begin to buy sportswear.for champion, the challeng was convinc retail that it sportswear line could compet with the like of ocean pacific, nike and adidas. 
 mr. holland expect the momentum to continue.th compani has ad a line of athlet shoes. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc a new line of midrang comput in a high-stak bid to regain the domin it onc held in that market. 
 intern data corp., a market research firm in framingham, mass., say ibm share of the $16 billion market fell to 27.6% world-wid in 1987 from 29% in 1983, while the share captur by archriv digit equip corp. vax rose to 21.6% from 13.5%.and ibm 9370 minicomput line, it initi attempt to regain dominance, has fail to becom the "vax killer" that ibm proclaim at it introduct more than 1 1/2 year ago. 
 and ibm 9370 minicomput line, it initi attempt to regain dominance, has fail to becom the "vax killer" that ibm proclaim at it introduct more than 1 1/2 year ago.becaus of the stakes, ibm introduct is the biggest the comput industri has seen in the 14 month sinc ibm brought out it ps/2 personal-comput line -- and some say it the biggest announc sinc ibm introduc it origin pc in 1981. 
 ibm underscor the signific by bring togeth 170,000 peopl yesterday to hear the news at more than 200 locat around the world.th new ibm line (code-nam silverlak in recent month but now call the applic system/400) merg the ibm system 36 and system 38 machines.do so remov the incompat between two of the three major minicomput line that ibm sell and give ibm some relief from digit relentless focus on it own freedom from compat problems. 
 the oper was in place in case ibm end up be forc to sell off part of it business.th system 38, in particular, was orphan by ibm, draw littl support from the compani even though it design was thought to be so sophist that ibm onc consid use it to build a line of mainfram that would supersed those now on the market. 
 a definit pact and close of the transact are schedul for june 30.mt. vernon, with annual sale of about $20 million, offer a line of more than 700 product that includ injection-mold plastic overcap for can coffee, margarin tubs, can nut and tenni ball cans. 
 by 1985, however, all but two american chip maker had to abandon the dram market.large, vertic integr japanes firms, abl to subsid memory-chip sale with profit from other lucrat lines, made it imposs for most american compani to surviv in this business. 
 he said the dow jone industri are like to reach the 2400 level dure the summer month as the market receiv a boost from second-quart earn reports, which he expect to be strong.intern busi machines, which jump 3 1/8 point tuesday after it introduct of the silverlak line of mid-rang computers, surg anoth 2 3/4 to 123. 
 honeywel said it second-quart earn will be below the $53 million, or $1.21 a share, of a year ago becaus of a $23 million charg for cost overrun and writedown in it militari avion group.hewlett-packard told dow jone profession investor report that it couldn't explain the drop, but analyst said it may have reflect concern that the silverlak comput will cut into sale of the compani spectrum line. 
 texaco rose 1 5/8 to 48 1/2 and top the big board list of most activ issu on composit volum of about four million shares.intern busi machines, which introduc it silverlak line of mid-rang comput as expected, jump 3 1/8 to 120 1/4 and was among a number of technolog issu that pace the market advance. 
 feder regul requir that so-cal passiv restraint -- air bag or automat seat belt -- be standard for the driver side in all car by 1990.chrysler corp. alreadi offer six car line with standard driver-sid air bag and yugo america inc. has said it has chosen to make driver-sid air bag standard on it 1990 models. 
 compaq comput corp. offici said the compani plan to unveil today a group of machin it hope will give a big boost to the most advanc generat of person comput by bring their price down.a expected, the three model in the comput compani new 386s line use a microchip that intel corp. introduc just last week. 
 expert western say russian refriger use too much power, weigh too much and make too much noise.consum clamor for them, as they do for the extens soviet line of fulli unautomat cameras. 
 marketing: bausch & lomb inc., rochester, n.y., sign a letter of intent with donna karan studio under which the eyewar product compani will make, market and distribut a line of sunglass by the new york designer. 
 pennwalt pharmaceut unit make such over-the-count brand as desenex athlet foot medic and allerest allergi medicine.it prescript drug includ microx, a rapid grow anti-hypertensive, and a line of cough remedies. 
 in a memo date may 2, joseph tate, audi general sale manager, told the compani dealer that the program "is design to present attract purchas alternatives" to coupon holder "who discov that the new 80 and 90 seri vehicl may be a better solut to their drive needs."h further elabor on the program aim in the may issu of the compani newsletter: "hope we can send some of the excess (audi) 5000 custom toward the 80 and 90 line. 
 audi blame the revers on the negat public surround the seri 5000 alleg problem with sudden acceleration.it affect not onli that car, but everi other car in the compani line. 
 kodak ask that judg zobel now withdraw from the case and that all of her order sinc 1981 be vacated.judg zobel rule in 1985 that kodak since-discontinu line of camera infring on seven polaroid patents, and kodak appeal failed. 
 lee thompson, beech-nut vice president, human resources, said the compani has spent at least $10 million sinc 1983 to improv qualiti control.h also said it has chang the babi food line and "upgrad all procedures." 
 the 386sx models, observ think, may start at about $3,000, but it couldn't be determin what compaq price will be on it machines.stewart alsop, publish of pc letter, an industri newsletter, said the advanced-softwar and technic advantag of the 386sx machin would ultim make 286 computers, such as the ibm pc at and the model 50 in ibm new ps/2 line, "pretti much obsolete." 
 "today, becaus the competit is so tough, you don't simpli say: hey i got a new car and immedi get all kind of peopl in the showroom," say lloyd e. reuss, gm execut vice presid for north american automot operations.indeed, chrysler corp. also has had problem with new products, most notabl it new eagl premier line inherit from american motor corp. slow sale will forc it to close for two week in june the bramalea, ontario, plant that make those cars. 
 other player includ revlon inc., johnson & johnson, alberto-culv co., gillett co. and dow chemic co. lamaur unit."they did a pretti good job of hold share last year," ms. templ said of the finess lines. 
 "if they hold their share (this year), i will be pleased."th finess promot follow last year success introduct of the compani helen curti salon select lines, with an advertis and promot budget of about $40 million. 
 hyponex corp. said it agre to be acquir by a unit control by o.m. scott & son co. for $14 a share, or a total of about $72.8 million.both compani are lawn-car product concerns, but hyponex would give scott, of marysville, ohio, more of a presenc in garden lines. 
 no more big workforc cutback are planned, he said.cincinnati bell hope to stimul revenu growth for telephon oper by offer more servic and introduc a new line of leas telephon equipment, mr. hibbard said in an interview. 
 most frequent mention are electron giant samsung of south korea, n.v. philip of the netherlands, and thomson s.a. of france.thomson last year acquir the consumer-electron busi of general electr co., includ it rca lines, leav zenith as the u.s.-bas maker of televisions. 
 thoma j. lipton inc., an englewood cliffs, n.j.-base unit of the anglo-dutch unilev group, agre to acquir mccormick & co. tio sancho line of mexican food. 
 neither compani could be reach to provid sale figur for tio sancho.mccormick said in may it abandon a propos to acquir the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from unit biscuit plc. 
 the chip shortag has also caus delay in comput shipment and production.a spokesman for palo alto, calif.-bas hewlett-packard co. said the compani has delay sinc march the introduct of one of it vectra line of offic person comput "sole becaus we knew we wouldn't be abl to get suffici chip to produc it." 
 while the palo alto, calif.-bas compani had expect the suppli to be looser by now, mr. young said, it hasn't, and the compani can't predict when the situat might improve.h note that the shortage, had push back introduct of a new model in it vectra person comput line to at least juli from the march unveil origin planned. 
 american brand inc. will sell e-ii hold inc. to close held rik famili corp., in a transact that enabl the compani to shed most of e-ii busi and all of e-ii $1.5 billion in high-yield debt.american brand move -- a complex agreement which will sell e-ii samsonit luggag and culligan water treatment lines, among other -- was prais by wall street analysts. 
 what more, cosmet industri execut say ad spend for men cologn rose 36% last year to $97 million and should grow further in 1988."we see the competit continu to intensifi with more new product and extens of exist fragranc line later this year," say byron donics, presid of the arami divis of este lauder inc. 
 the fanfar will be big becaus silverlak market is potenti huge.th machin will be a new model in ibm unglamor but sturdi 3x line, with 275,000 current custom make the line one of the best-sel comput famili ever outsid the pc world. 
 keyston camera product corp. said it grant to mitsubishi intern corp. the right to distribut keyston 35mm camera in japan.mitsubishi international, a unit of tokyo-bas mitsubishi corp., will sell the full line of keyston cameras, includ the le clic and regenc models. 
 high-perform tires, which provid better handl than standard tires, have been increas their market penetr in recent years.goodyear, with it eagl line, has a command lead in the high-perform market. 
 nynex agre to buy profession servic and softwar line from ag comput for about $275 million. 
 the cricket commercial, which caru cite as be misleading, is typic of the group targets.in anoth case, a seri of independent-tv ad for sylvanian families, a line of small anim figur made by coleco industri inc./tomi corp., use stop-act anim to make the figur walk, jump and pick up furniture. 
 jim perkin was name senior vice presid of the lexus divis of this unit of toyota motor corp. of japan.in the newli creat position, mr. perkin will be respons for all activ in the lexus division, which is schedul to begin sell a new line of luxuri car in the u.s. next fall. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it person system/2 line of person comput appear to be sell the best in europe. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it person system/2 line of person comput appear to be sell the best in europe.john akers, chairman of the giant maker of offic machines, said at a news confer here that europ now is "probabl the strongest market" for the ps/2 line.h note that the u.s. market has been constrain by suppli problems, but said the outlook for the ps/2 line "is shape up veri well" this year. 
 accord to analysts, sale of ps/2 got off to a rocki start but have risen late -- especi in europe.ibm want to establish the line as the new standard in person comput in europe.it introduc the line in april 1987 and has said it ship near two million unit by it first anniversary. 
 it is also necessari to evalu the major sale incent that have becom so preval in the marketplace.for example, substanti discount are avail on mani gm car line when option are purchas in a pre-specifi "package," which is design to includ the item most peopl would order separately. 
 on a 1988 chevrolet cavalier, a packag of popular option cost the custom $1,477 when purchas separ is discount by $675 when order as a complet package.in addition, the competit marketplac has frequent requir the use of cash rebat or low-interest-r financ on mani car lines. 
 the line last year generat sale of $77 million, and the divis purchas by slm account for about $35 million of that total.coleco tricycl line are among the product not includ in the purchase, slm said. 
 close held slm is control by canadian interests.william fedyski, president, said the line acquir from coleco would complement slm current line of plastic outdoor season products. 
 of course, the coutur collect present at splashi seventh avenu show in new york do origin from famous design sketchpads.but most design also have second-str and third-str line design main by assist or license and often are no more fashion and no better in qualiti than ordinari brands. 
 limit own forenza brand is now the second-best-sel women label in the u.s., after liz claiborne.but mani retail that long sold store brand primarili as the bottom end of their cloth line now are offer a much broader rang of private-label apparel. 
 dallas-bas neiman-marcus is increas it use of private-label goods, part to replac apparel by liz claiborn and evan picone, whose brand were drop last year becaus the chain felt they were overexposed.on of neiman-marcus best seller last winter was a line of private-label cashmer sweater price from $150 to $250. 
 coleco didn't say how much extend financ it had received.th toy compani also said it has receiv offer for the sale of it outdoor product line, which includ children pool and tricycles. 
 these includ slow u.s. sale and huge inventori backlog partial attribut to a product that hasn't chang in two year and an expens advertis campaign.to boost sales, the compani plan to introduc new model this fall and a new line of cars, call infinity, in septemb 1989. 
 the roster of decor who have sign licens contract with furnitur maker read like the tabl of content from architectur digest: mark hampton, mario buatta, jay spectr and juan montoya, as well as fashion design ralph lauren, whose cloth ad featur upper-crust victorian interiors.furnitur maker are hope that decor line will give a kick to what is essenti a stagnant market. 
 typically, industri execut say, most peopl wait seven to 10 year to replac a sofa, and they hang onto a bedroom set for at least 16 years.th design lines, of course, have no singl look, but rather reflect the style of the decorators, rang from 18th and 19th centuri reproduct to sleek, modern furnishings. 
 the design lines, of course, have no singl look, but rather reflect the style of the decorators, rang from 18th and 19th centuri reproduct to sleek, modern furnishings.centuri furnitur co. is typic of the tradit furnitur maker that have introduc decor lines. 
 he declin to provid more-specif figures.mr. hopkin say the lauren line give frederick edwards, base in morgantown, n.c., a firm foot in the high end of the furnitur market. 
 "it was a question marriag from the start becaus kroehler did lower-end good and lack credibl in the upper end," say jerri epperson, an analyst with wheat first secur in richmond, va.and a line of chair by the ubiquit french fashion design pierr cardin was, accord to one big depart store, "plain horrible, a mistak that didn't sell at all." 
 he acknowledg that some shortag of memori chip could persist into the third quarter if demand outstrip ibm expect but ad that, "we feel extrem confid about the fourth quarter."that advantag will be especi use to ibm becaus high-end machin requir extra memory, and demand has been weaker for ibm high-end machin than for other in the line. 
 in composit new york stock exchang trade yesterday, ibm share close at $112.625, off 50 cents.a expected, ibm also announc yesterday sever product that fill in it personal-comput line. 
 avon product inc. expect to report about flat second-quart oper earnings, and it maintain it estim of $2.30 a share from continu line for the full year. 
 fcb/leber is a unit of foote, cone & beld communic inc.licensing: colonia inc. receiv a world-wid licens agreement from knoll intern hold inc., parent of the 21 club, to produc a line of men fragranc name after the new york restaurant.th line, to be introduc in the u.s. in 1989, mark the first time the restaur has licens the use of it name. 
 his willing to tri differ approach has prove both a strength and weak for unocal.whil mr. hartley interest in underground steam format put the compani into a profit line, his unshak belief that synthet oil extract from shale would one day prove a moneymak has led the compani to write off hundr of million of dollar and to oper a plant that is produc well below it design capacity. 
 yugos, subcompact car import from yugoslavia, carri a base sticker price of $4,299 -- the lowest sticker price of ani car in the u.s.chrysl corp. announc last month that it start put driver-sid air bag as standard equip in six of it car lines, make it the first big three auto maker to do so. 
 the industri execut said the armonk, n.y., comput giant will introduc three version of what it will call the person system/2 model 70, a high-end machin that will use the intel corp. 80386 central processor.th version resembl the model 80, current the high end of the ibm line, except that they will sit on the desktop rather than on the floor in what is known as a tower configuration. 
 in addition, ibm will introduc a version of it model 50 that will have a faster hard disk.th model 50, in the middl of ibm line, had drawn consider critic in the trade press for the slow with which it retriev inform from the hard disk. 
 the execut also said ibm will cut price on some exist model to make room for the new ones, though they weren't sure just how larg the cut would be or which model they would cover.tim bajarin, a consult with creativ strategi research international, santa clara, calif., specul that they would cover at least the model 25 and 30, at the low end of the line, and the model 60, in the middl of the line. 
 at the same time, ibm seem to have postpon the announc of some product it was plan to bring out today.in particular, ibm had been wide expect to bring out laptop use the muscular 80386 chip and the less power 80286, which is use in the middl of ibm ps/2 line. 
 the progenitor of the breed was nike inc. air revolut shoe, introduc last year with televis ad set to the beatl "revolution" and print ad promis improv performance.sever rival have been introduc recently, or will be soon, includ the energi wave shoe from convers inc., a unit of interco inc.; the world trainer shoe, with an "energi return system," from reebok; and a line of shoe from eton inc. use a "dynam reaction plate." 
 oleg cassini was award $16 million by a feder court juri in a legal squabbl over a contract with perfum maker jovan inc.th 75-year-old fashion design claim that jovan breach a 1978 contract for a fragranc line market under the design name. 
 walter m. doyle, 50 year old, resign as chairman, presid and chief execut officer, and norman jennings, 40, quit as a director and senior vice presid of laser, and general manag of analect instrument division, the unit.donald sypek, 51, resign as a director and senior vice presid of the parent, but will remain with laser precis as manag of it radiometr product line. 
 great atlant & pacif tea co. is introduc a line of fanci private-label foodstuff in a far-reach attempt to capit on grow demand for gourmet products. 
 great atlant & pacif tea co. is introduc a line of fanci private-label foodstuff in a far-reach attempt to capit on grow demand for gourmet products.th line, call master choice, also repres an effort to fill what a&p, of montvale, n.j., perceiv as a void between mass-market nation brand and elitist brands. 
 within the next six months, shopper will find the master choic name on teas, pastas, sauc and salad dressings.a&p, which had $9.6 billion in sale last year, envis ultim a line of more than 100 product in about two dozen categories, mr. rourk says. 
 competitor specul that the nation fourth-largest supermarket concern will have to spend a substanti amount to develop premium product that then will end up sell in relat low volumes.moreover, the extens line could hog valuabl shelf space that would otherwis be devot to more-popular items. 
 as part of a turnaround strategi in the earli 1980s, a&p slash it depend on privat label to 18% of it dry-groceri product mix from a peak of 35%.the compani now want to use master choic to bolster it private-label line back up to 25%, a typic level for chain nowadays. 
 bloom, a unit of bloom compani inc., will creat advertis for babi fresh and wash a-by babi wet wipes; sofkins, a flushabl cleans wipe; cottonell toilet paper, and help hand and job squad paper towels.weightman, a unit of weightman group, will creat ad for scottowels; scottissues; scotties, anoth tissue; scott famili napkins, and viva design collections, a line of tabletop item includ paper napkin and placemats. 
 a few year ago, the laptop was simpli call z171.the latest models, introduc with a "road warriors" theme in april, are in a line dub supersport. 
 "mi ambit for japan is that we should sell about 25,000 volvo car in the middl of the 1990s," he said.fuji presid toshihiro tajima said, "volvo car will enabl us to meet today broad custom need by ad a new model line in the upper segment where we current do not offer ani products." 
 south african are loosen or termin their u.s. busi connect far faster than the legal environ warrants.two year ago, the idea of "countersanctions" -- predatori and discriminatori price against american buyer in line where south african produc combin could exert some monopolist power -- was dismiss out of hand by the south african busi elite. 
 chip & technolog inc. said intern busi machin corp. agre not to requir the microcomput chip maker to take out licens of ibm patent and technolog for it chip set use in clone of ibm line of person computers. 
 disney, a theme-park, movi and tv concern, bought childcraft from hachett s.a., a french publish that earlier acquir childcraft parent, grolier inc. childcraft, edison, n.j., sell educ toys, play equip and classroom furnitur by mail.advertising: pepsi-cola co., a unit of purchase, n.y.-bas pepsico inc., select loi pitt gershon/pon/ggk, new york, to creat advertis for it mug root beer line, acquir two year ago. 
 al vlietstra, director of sale for the coca-cola food canada inc. unit of coca cola co., said he welcom the competit that tropicana will bring becaus it presenc will probabl develop the refriger juic market in canada, where per capita consumpt is substanti below the u.s. level.coca-cola minut maid began market a refriger orang juic made from concentr in canada in 1985, in addit to it frozen line of orang juice. 
 the case involv 83 of an estim 14,000 design made by hallmark, the industri giant.two year ago, blue mountain art inc. of boulder, colo., su hallmark for trademark violations, contend that hallmark person touch line of card was too similar to it products. 
 public ownership is an issu now in part becaus dealership have chang so much in recent years.in the 1950s, when the number of dealership nation was twice what it is today, dealer tie their fortun to singl franchises, pitch chevys, ford or plymouth to the exclus of other car lines. 
 on friday, the compani note that it restructur effort over the past coupl of year have strengthen it oper results.amax has sharpli pare it long-term oblig and has focus it busi on gold, aluminum and coal after shed line in silver, copper, nickel, iron ore and agricultur chemicals. 
 mccormick & co. said it would abandon it propos $56 million acquisit of the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from a unit of unit biscuit plc after the feder trade commiss author it staff to seek a preliminari injunct block the transaction. 
 in fact, despit the sharp price drop in hewlett-packard shares, on volum of about 2.3 million shares, most analyst said they don't expect to adjust their project for the compani perform in futur quarters.hewlett-packard, which late in the quarter introduc nine new model of it spectrum busi comput line, said order for those machin should pick up in come quarters. 
 chrysler corp. has start put driver-sid air bag as standard equip in six of it car lines, make it the first big three auto maker to do so. 
 sale plung 41% to $73.7 million, from $124.5 million a year earlier.th loss left the west hartford, conn., toy maker -- ride high just three year ago on the success of it cabbag patch kid line -- with a negat net worth -- the differ between asset and liabil -- of $130.7 million. 
 in it earn announcement, which came after the stock market closed, coleco said it will seek a buyer for sever plastic outdoor product line that are manufactur at it new york state facilities, includ pools, snow products, children furnitur and tricycles.thes lines, which are among coleco older products, generat sale of $77 million last year, coleco said. 
 morton handel, the new chairman and chief executive, said earlier this month the compani might sell some asset to rais cash.analyst have said that the sale of line could help the compani pay off some of it debt. 
 briefs: the u.s. chess hall of fame and museum open tomorrow in new windsor, n.y. . . .a new line of inflat stereo speaker from hyman product inc., st. louis, come shape like palm trees, guitar and juke boxes. 
 in 1986, hasbro earn $99.2 million, or $1.70 a share, on revenu of $1.34 billion.mr. hassenfeld said the milton bradley game divis and it playskool line of toy will perform particular well this year. 
 the move has shock the clone makers, which had assum that ibm lack of object had assur them of clear sailing, and could squeez the more margin clone companies.th decis could also delay introduct of some clone of ibm year-old ps/2 line of person computers.in addition, the move reintroduc the prospect of messi litig in the personal-comput market at a time when ibm decis to licens the patent for it ps/2 line had been quiet that talk. 
 the success of those small store prompt big mass merchandis to also carri more licens sport goods.and the develop of "authentics" -- licens duplic of gear use by the pros -- result in an upscal line of licens product appeal to affluent babi boomers. 
 basketbal junki can slam dunk their dirti cloth through a hoop into an nba hamper.th nfl is consid a line of high-fashion even wear. 
 ibm is demand retroact payment from clone maker for patent it say were use in the ibm-compat person computers.th decis shock clone maker and could delay some clone of ibm ps/2 line. 
 slow sale are forc chrysler corp. to cut output of it premier sedan, the flagship of it new eagl car line. 
 a spokesman said the compani was "veri pleased" with the results.in addit to continu strong sale of the compani current line of dbase databas manag softwar and multim word-process products, he cite an "import contribution" from the fullwrit profession word-process package. 
 fullwrite, design for appl comput inc. macintosh machines, was introduc late in the first quarter.michel preston, an analyst with salomon brothers, call the latest period "a pretti good quarter for the company," consid it has indic it plan to begin ship this summer dbase iv, a revamp version of the dbase line. 
 murjani intern is team up with former presid warren hirsch to relaunch gloria vanderbilt jeans, a now fade brand that was one of the big hit of the design jean craze of the late 1970s.hong kong-bas murjani, a close held apparel maker that market coca-cola brand cloth and tommi hilfig menswear, said the revamp line will be made by a joint ventur run by mr. hirsch. 
 murjani licens the vanderbilt trademark to anoth women apparel firm, jone apparel group in 1985, but took the brand back last march.murjani said jone apparel dilut the trademark by introduc an extens line of women sportswear and de-emphas jeans. 
 actor dress in raisin costum march in the maci thanksgiv day parad in new york, and a raisin conga line danc at the white hous christma tree light ceremony, even upstag a certain former actor.ther are 55 license for product base on the raisin charact (for which mr. vinton doe not hold the rights), and kiddi from coast to coast are gobbl up various item of raisin-decor garb, as well as collect a line of plastic raisin figurin -- each raisin bear a name to make it more personable, lovable, buyable. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it revamp it wheelwrit line of typewriters, with the addit of five new machin model and the modif of three others. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it revamp it wheelwrit line of typewriters, with the addit of five new machin model and the modif of three others.ibm said the new machines, which are made in lexington, ky., replac and expand exist lines. 
 rebat on buick electras, le sabr and centuri all drop to $500 from $750.sale were strong across virtual all manufactur lines. 
 techknit inc. said it sign an exclus licens agreement with denton mill inc., new albany, miss., to make and market the dr. denton line of sweater for infants, toddler and children. 
 mr. wallac said the printer won't work with appl comput inc. popular macintosh computers, but will be tune to do so sometim in the future.appl offer it own line of laser printer price from about $3,000 to $7,000, but offer noth technolog compar to the deskjet. 
 crs sirrin inc., an architectur and engin concern, said it was chosen by general motor corp. as one of three compani that will design dealership facil for gm new saturn corp. car line. 
 tri a .25-calib beretta, strap around the thigh in a black-lac garter holster.th holster is part of a new line of wardrob accessori creat by design who think pack a pistol ought to be done in style. 
 "shoot is for all," say lenni handler, owner of the fort lauderdale, fla., bang bang boutique, among the largest gun-fashion retailers.th store offer a wide line of color-coordin holsters. 
 she ad her own touch -- a special holster allow the gun to be fire without remov it from the purs -- and has sinc sold hundreds.still, the new fashion line doesn't appeal to everyone. 
 c. olivetti & co. mr. cassoni last offici act as at&t comput chief was to give a speech promot at&t unix oper system at an industri confer here.becaus at&t has acknowledg that softwar and servic will command higher profit margin in the futur than manufactur hardware, a number of analyst have specul that at&t may contract out the manufactur of it next line of minicomputers. 
 mr. kavner said a number of custom have been concern about at&t end manufactur of computers, a move that analyst believ would caus at&t to take anoth writedown.jack grubman, an analyst at painewebb inc., said howev that becaus most of at&t minicomput sale are to the bell oper companies, outsourc manufactur of at&t next line of minicomput wouldn't result in a write-down. 
 mr. kavner said the compani are most interest in share product-develop effort as well as help each other in their respect markets.olivetti, which a few month ago appear to be interest in adopt the sun sparc chip for a new line of computers, hasn't yet decid to do so, said richard mcginn, vice president, product management, for at&t data system group. 
 ford motor co. follow general motor corp. and chrysler corp. in reduc factori rebates, and effect rais the price of mani american-mad car and trucks.th dearborn, mich.-bas auto maker said yesterday that while it will extend rebat offer on mani of it model until juli 12, effect today it will cut or elimin the cash offer on some of it most popular lines. 
 for example, the rebat on ford midsiz taurus and sabl model will drop 20% to $600 from $750.still, ford midsiz car rebat is $100 more generous than the $500 gm is offer on it competit midsiz oldsmobil cutlass ciera, pontiac 6000 and chevrolet celebr lines. 
 it is liquid it cwt inc. transport subsidiari and is sell it atlanta novelti inc. plush-toy unit and it cornucopia farm inc. fruit-farm business.gerb retain salomon brother inc. to seek a buyer for the furnitur group, which make a broad line of juvenil furnitur under the century, centuri origin and nod-a-way brand names. 
 but mani concern tri to crack the general market say they face formid barrier becaus of percept that black compani were unreli or their product low-quality.consid johnson product co. experi when, in the late 1970s, it launch "black tie," a line of men toiletri that was heavili advertis use most white actor and models. 
 the initi pact call for a merger of henkel and new york-bas colgat product facilities, but would have kept their market separate.instead, henkel will sell cotell soap and bleach lines, which have annual turnov of about 550 million french francs, to colgat for 925 million francs. 
 more than 300 cash machin throughout the citi and it suburb stop functioning."th machin can still talk to you, but the transact won't go anyplac without the comput line," said steven cole, presid of cash station inc., which oper some 900 cash machin in the chicago area. 
 fcb/leber katz, a divis of chicago-bas foote, cone & beld communic inc., is also alreadi a big rjr agenc with industri estim of about $110 million in rjr billings.in recent years, it had handl the comeback, through line extensions, of shred wheat. 
 the compani american heyday is long sinc past and in recent month it has been jolt by new setbacks.at least nine dealer have drop it upscal audi line sinc the year began, and compani offici fear more defect are coming. 
 fund from the sale had been earmark to help pay down the compani heavi debt load, a substanti amount of which is in short-term obligations.th optometr line were expect to garner about $300 million. 
 the net figur includ a $9 million charg from the sale of operations, partial offset by a $3.1 million tax credit.besid it optometr and medic diagnost operations, cooper has a line of surgic products. 
 fiscal 1988 revenu will be about $45 million, he predicted.mr. morino, in an interview, attribut the perform to high demand for it integr line of softwar products, which allow custom to manag all aspect of their data process systems. 
 morino associ will pursu further growth through acquisit and expans of it intern operations, the chairman said.for example, product purchas recent from other compani will be combin with morino associ in-hous develop to introduc a new line of softwar that appli tradit inventory-control concept to data process systems. 
 mitsubishi motor sale of america inc. said it rais the price of it 1988 mirag car line an averag of 1.9%, or about $170. 
 the acquisition, subject to a tender offer garner 50.1% of ingredi shares, would add ingredi flavors, sweeten and spice busi to the dyes, flavors, food addit and artificial-color line of crompton & knowles, a stamford, conn., concern. 
 price at $2.5 million to $14 million, the machin incorpor the same motorola inc. 2,500-macrocel silicon-bas array chip use in the y series.initi the ea line will offer as much as twice the memori of the y-mp. 
 under the current exchang plan, coleco would dilut it share by about 50%.analysts, who ask not to be quoted, said that coleco has mani asset that would be attract to other toy companies, includ the cabbag patch doll line, the alf doll base on the televis character, plastic ride-on toy and wade pool and such game as scrabbl and trivial pursuit. 
 while such power is of interest onli to the largest customers, the 100-mip mark is "a mileston -- both for the industri and for amdahl," accord to robert djurdjevic, presid of annex research, a phoenix, ariz.-bas comput industri consult firm.mr. djurdjev said amdahl new machin "may forc ibm to provid enhanc to it 3090 line sooner than they had intended." 
 today, the compani has a market valu of about $48 million, base on the stock close price yesterday of $2.375.while it physic assets, includ it toy lines, are worth perhap $250 million, accord to analysts, the compani debt is far higher. 
 but a sale of some asset to rais cash is possible.mr. handel said, "a wide varieti of parti have express interest in buy one or more of the compani toy lines." 
 he said coleco wasn't interest previously, but he declin to discuss it current position.ironically, the cabbag patch kid line could draw some bidders, even though it declin in recent year has contribut to coleco problems.whil cabbag patch sale last year were $125 million, down from $600 million in 1985, the toy line remain one the nation best selling. 
 among other allegations, the treasuri said heublein obtain an agreement from a larg restaur chain with outlet in california, arizona and washington state requir that heublein inglenook brand be use exclus as the hous wine.retail dealer in connecticut, illinois, texas, california and other state were provid freezer as an incent to purchas a new heublein line of distil spirits, and the compani instal keg wine equip to induc retail in new jersey to purchas it brand of keg wine, the treasuri said. 
 "but with pfizer, all you'v got is complaints."for the past year, analyst have complain that pfizer isn't work for it holders: the compani refus to divest it non-drug lines, as other in the industri have done, and pfizer general eschew stock buy-backs. 
 that would lift per-shar earn to between $4.48 and $4.68; analyst estim lean toward the lower end of that range.at the may 17 meeting, pfizer is expect to expound on a number of new products, notabl an advanc formula of it fast-sel heart drug procardia and a new line of antibiotics. 
 revenu rose 18% to $190.1 million from $161.6 million.ogilvy, which also has interest in public relat and other market lines, said it oper profit margin rose to 4.5% from 2.9% a year earlier. 
 amdahl ad 1 7/8 to 42 1/4.the compani introduc a line of mainfram comput that it said are faster than ani other mainfram on the market. 
 the ergon line of offic chair is indisput a success. 
 as the name implies, the chair, design by william stumpf & associ for herman miller inc., address comfort for a wide rang of user and tasks.thre million have been sold sinc the line was introduc 12 year ago. 
 despit much anticipatori hoopla, round two won't be a battl on the same epic scale.mani industri officials, dealers, and custom say clone of ibm year-old second line of pcs, the ps/2, will put far less pressur on the compani than did the previous generation. 
 clone underpr ibm by 25% to 40% the first time around becaus they had lower overhead than ibm and access to the same supplier part at the same prices.but ibm make 70% to 90% of it own part for the ps/2, up from some 20% for the previous line. 
 separately, grace purchas for cash the graphic-art divis of uniroy plastic co., a subsidiari of jesup group inc. grace new unit make printer gum and photopolym print plates, which are use in make plate for flexograph print of sever packag materials.grac said the acquisit expand the compani line of consum suppli for the graphic art industry. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade friday, schere fell 75 cent to close at $48.75, and cooper close at $12.375, down 62.5.separately, schere said it agre with lasall laboratori to develop and market a line of gynecolog sex-hormon product in the u.s. and canada. 
 toy compani dream up a dozen new toy-bas cartoon last year.but this year, onli one compani -- hasbro, for it cop and crook line of toy -- has a tie-in cartoon on the draw boards. 
 the craze began in 1983, when mattel put up $7 million to help fund the product of 65 half-hour episod of "he-man."bi year end, sale of master of the universe, the line that includ the he-man toy, had near tripled, make it one of 1983 hottest-sel toys. 
 "thundercats," about catlik humanoid from outer space, was a top-rat cartoon last year.nonetheless, the toy of the same name, made by ljn, suffer from dismal sales; the compani drop it from it line. 
 tonka, for instance, is forgo toy-bas cartoon in favor of that old standby, the movi tie-in.it develop a line of toy link to "willow," a stephen spielberg movi due this summer. 
 other companies, however, onc again are go with the unknown.to push it dyno-rid line of toys, tyco reject the cartoon concept as "too big a chance," accord to michael lyden, tyco vice presid of busi development. 
 strong perform in diapers, liquid deterg -- previous shun by european -- and from it richardson-vick inc. drug unit help p&g abroad.salomon brother inc. mr. zurkhulen note that the pamper diaper line, which onc had sluggish result outsid the u.s., "has realli turn around overseas." 
 polaroid said that it world-wid effect tax rate rose to 51% in the 1988 first quarter from 21% in the year-ago period.th cambridge, mass., compani also said that it increas market promot in the first quarter to reduc dealer inventori of an older-camera line in prepar for the introduct of it low-pric impuls camera. 
 it aim to keep up that growth by ad new busi to matur ones.for instance, nestl in recent year has built it ground-coffe line through cost acquisit and new products. 
 and nestl hope the de benedetti interests, which includ buitoni pasta and perugina chocolates, will generat similar idea and improv for other markets.rowntre chocol busi would strengthen nestl by ad snack product to it well-known line of chocol bars. 
 the feder trade commiss ask the feder district court here to block mccormick & co. propos $56 million acquisit of the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from a subsidiari of unit biscuit plc. 
 ibm-brasil, establish 71 year ago, is among the 20 largest privat compani in brazil.it is the market leader in larg comput but has been unabl to sell it line of person comput becaus of brazil controversi polici of reserv this market for nation manufacturers. 
 "you can't provid a consistent, consumer-pref product."tropicana is also about to unveil a new line of non-refriger orange-bas drink call twisters. 
 as of march 31, the compani had 6,950,000 share outstanding, down from 7,150,000 a year earlier becaus of a buy-back after the octob stock market plunge.american health licens diet center franchises, and sell relat line of diet food and nutrit supplement for weight loss. 
 after the split, the santa clara, calif., compani will have 2.2 million share outstanding.aft the expect sale in may of it medic laser line, cooper life scienc will be base in menlo park, calif., and plan to develop, acquir and invest in health-car product and businesses. 
 mr. perrin said he is confid the talk will reach a conclus in the next year or so.h said cartier is also talk with two other close held european luxury-good compani about expand it market share in other lines. 
 but those gain were offset great by "significant" drop in it lumber oper and mortgag bank and residenti develop activities.weyerhaeus said oper earn for forest product lines, exclus of pulp and paper, fell 35%.a year earlier, the line had a $25 million capit gain from disposit of some land and timber. 
 ibm is promis the new softwar product as much as six month earlier than expected.th oper system will final let custom tap the potenti of ibm line of mainframes, give them a reason to stop use older hardware. 
 "in this business, that all-important."ibm will continu to make it three line of copiers, which kodak expect to market under it own name by the end of the year. 
 "if kodak can pick up the ibm segment and convert it to kodak, it will be a real boom to kodak," said alex b. henderson, an analyst with prudential-bach secur inc.allen j. krowe, ibm execut vice president, said the compani determin that kodak, with it broader line of copiers, could better support the substanti market and sell costs. 
 the partnership also said that it might sell the holdings.in a secur and exchang commiss filing, haddad said it affili hold licens to distribut the hush puppi line of cloth and therefor have a busi relationship with wolverine, which make those products. 
 mr. dell also maintain that his model would outperform ibm's.del said it is negoti with ibm to licens ani patent ibm has on the ps/2 line. 
 motorola inc. unveil it latest microprocessor chip family, the 88000 line, boast the new chip provid fivetim more process power than leading-edg competitors. 
 "we are confid of be support by the banks," a daimler spokesman said, ad that he couldn't confirm recurr specul that daimler-benz has amass more than it record 56% stake in open-market acquisitions.bi take full control of aeg, daimler can step up implement of it strategi of integr aeg electron busi into it automot and technolog line and reduc aeg former emphasi in consum appliances. 
 the retail said it will upgrad store in norfolk, hampton and virginia beach for a total cost of $12 million.at these stores, furnitur and certain other line will be discontinued; that space will be devot to apparel. 
 at&t has been dissatisfied, moreover, with olivetti sale of it 3b2 minicomput and system 75 phone switchboard line in europe.olivetti also ruffl some at&t feather last novemb when it came out with a line of minicomput that some analyst say compet with the at&t machin olivetti is suppos to sell. 
 an unusu claus will permit asea brown to take over the second ventur in 1990 if either westinghous insist or if asea brown decid to do so.whil the paperwork may be complicated, the transact otherwis fit neat into a line of major corpor move mr. barnevik has initi sinc 1980, when he becam presid of asea. 
 the new softwar -- dub mvs/esa -- won't becom avail until august, but it could alreadi be give sierra sale a lift.gartn research show that price for use mainfram from the ibm line that preced sierra have fallen about 60% over the last six months, after hold firm for a year. 
 fiscal 1987 result were sharpli lower than prior year becaus of a slump market for add-on comput circuit board -- which then was ast princip line of business.th climb in this year revenue, the compani said, is due to the popular of ast line of person computers, which in the last year and a half has chang the compani into one of the largest maker of person computers. 
 profit has been aid by manufactur efficiencies.ast also plan to expand it comput line, ad less-expens model for small busi and more power one for computer-aid design and desk-top publishing. 
 in term of speed, the new comput are expect to process from 2.7 million instruct per second, or mips, to more than 10 mips, depend on how mani microprocessor are inside.in performance, they will overlap sever ibm computers, includ part of the ibm 9370 line and the 4381 line. 
 intern busi machin corp., seek to rais the return on it massiv research and develop investments, said it will start charg more money to licens it 32,000 patent around the world.in announc the change, ibm also said that it will to licens patent for it ps/2 line of person computers. 
 digit equip is expect to unveil a seri of comput to replac the middl of it vax line. 
 the judg is expect to clarifi his rule this week.lord geller has handl both corpor and product advertis for ibm, and is perhap best known for the charli chaplin campaign it creat for ibm person comput line. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday, compaq stock surg $2 a share to close at $54.75.the first-quart result indic that compaq deskpro 386 model 20 is continu to sell well despit a challeng from intern busi machin corp. newest person comput line. 
 the three -- peter gold, chairman and chief execut officer; david rousso, chief financi officer; and sydney irmas, a director -- own 67% of the price pfister share outstanding.emhart, a maker of industrial, consum and electron goods, said price pfister residenti plumb line would complement emhart construct and do-it-yourself products. 
 moreover, sear has tri unsuccess in the past to pump up it women business.in the earli 1980s, it introduc cheryl tieg and stefani power line of private-label clothing. 
 "they'r in never-nev land."th new cloth line may not be differ enough to give sear an edge. 
 holder love to tell stori about the compani market acumen.lik the stori about the time neutrogena introduc it premium-pr shampoo line to a less-than-thril reception. 
 the race to clone intern busi machin corp. ps/2 line of person comput has turn into a contest between two texas-bas companies, with tini dell comput co. appar tri to upstag giant tandi corp. 
 while mr. cassoni trim last year loss by 70% from a year earlier through bookkeep chang and some cost-cutting, revenu from outsid custom drop 4% in a banner year for the rest of the industry.industri sourc say unit sale of at&t person comput fell about 16% last year to approxim 120,000, while sale of the 3b minicomput line to outsid custom fell about 20% to 7,600. 
 at&t and sun are expect to announc soon a plan for a softwar program to make unix easier to use.th minicomput replac at&t 3b line are schedul to be launch in the second half of 1989. 
 ibm said it has ship near two million unit of it person system/2 line of person comput sinc it introduct a year ago. 
 there isn't much mahogani at the flagship mark & spencer, on london oxford street near marbl arch.th self-servic store is one of the busiest store on earth, sell cloth and food with a recent ad line of home furnish in an annex across the street. 
 but long-term health requir basic chang in mattel market strategies."we'v decid to concentr on those area where we'v histor been strong, while slowli build in other areas," such as preschool, where the firm has sign a long-term licens agreement to use disney charact on it entir line, mr. amerman says. 
 in it personal-car division, mr. reitman said, sale of children diaper continu to show consider growth despit competition.h said the divis plan to introduc an adult diaper line in the second quarter, and expect that product to break even this fiscal year. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it has ship near two million unit of it person system/2 line of person computers, as it pass the first anniversari of the product introduction. 
 but he said it isn't seek to bring in an execut "to head up the firm."lord geller has handl both corpor and product advertis for ibm, and is perhap best-known for the charli chaplin campaign it creat for ibm person comput line. 
 "that a broad range, but we believ enough peopl buy with that as a prompt preference" for the compani to reformul the way it make it products.lately, numer compani have introduc product that are low in satur fat and cholesterol, "but this is the first compani i'v heard of that has reformul it entir line -- certain the first bakeri company," said lynn dornblaser, manag editor of the trade publication, gorman new product news. 
 other segment have matur or are saturated.marriott entri into the economi line has it risks. 
 kinney shoe corp. is polish up it dull image.known as a market of budget-pr famili shoes, the 94-year-old kinney, a subsidiari of f.w. woolworth co., will soon begin sharpli increas it relianc on more expensive, all-leath shoe in it women line. 
 in the year-ago period, the compani report a net loss of $4.9 million on sale of $23.1 million.mr. schwartz said the compani face a "cash crunch" earlier in the year becaus of advertis cost associ with it frozen food line. 
 chevrolet will market renam version of it nova, sprint and spectrum under the new badge, hope to sharpen the ident of what is now a muddl array of subcompacts.th divis also plan to includ a new import jeep-lik sport-util vehicl in the line, accord to dealer and compani sources. 
 a mattel spokesman said the compani is "disappointed" by the downgrade."we'r encourag by the posit custom respons to our 1988 toy line and are realiz cost save from our restructur program," he added. 
 magazines: mcgraw-hil inc. electron magazin was acquir by verenigd nederlands uitgeversbedrijven, the netherland largest publish group, for an undisclos price.vnu said electronics, a control circul trade journal that distribut 135,000 copi bimonthly, fit well with it grow line of specialist public . . . 
 some of these award have been reduc on appeal.mr. estridg was one of ibm most visibl execut after start and overse the earli develop of the ibm pc and build the line into a $4.5 billion annual busi in onli four years. 
 mr. batogowski recent negoti a licens agreement with walt disney co. to produc merchandis use disney characters.h also negoti a similar agreement with mcdonald corp., result in the success mckid cloth line.both ventur are expect to rejuven some of sear youth lines. 
 seagram co. recent $1.2 billion bid for the tropicana orang juic line put it diversif strategi in the spotlight. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday, american standard close at $75.50, up 37.5 cents, while black & decker rose 12.5 cent to close at $18.50.black & decker, a towson, md.-base maker of power tool and home appliances, launch it unsolicit tender offer in late january, and has said that american standard air condit and plumb line are a logic extens of it business. 
 ge acknowledg when it made it offer for roper that it was the first time the compani had put out an unsolicit bid for an acquisit target.g had attempt last novemb to interest roper in a voluntari merger to obtain the georgia compani kitchen-rang line, but was rebuf by the compani management. 
 peugeot motor of america inc. is expand it rebat offer of $3,000 on it line of 1988-model peugeot 505 sedan and five-passeng station wagons. 
 the maker of electron communic equip said the purchas price repres $8 million over the book valu of the products, which are the compani line of scanner and marin radios.togeth the line account for 24% of regenc $75 million in sale last year. 
 mr. montgomeri scoff at such concerns.h say he "doesn't foresee" the need for ani acquisitions, except for limit addit to the diagnost line, in the next few years. 
 a computer-market pact between intern busi machin corp. and britain ferranti intern plc herald a major ibm campaign to boost european sale of it new line of person computers. 
 on march 4, ibm respond to the disclosur of such discuss to the wall street journal by one of it execut by label his comment as "premature" in a statement.th oem move signal a stepped-up drive by ibm to establish it year-old ps/2 line as the new standard in person comput in europe.th current standard remain the one set by ibm older pc line, which rival manufactur world-wid quick "cloned." 
 a number are test lighter weight paper and smaller catalogs.oth plan to cut out entir line of low-margin merchandis that they can no longer afford to sell by mail. 
 ncr unveil a minicomput line for link network of person comput or termin in offices. 
 term of the revis transact weren't disclosed.th institut soap product line has annual sale of about $13 million.th origin agreement was to acquir just the consum soap lines. 
 greyhound, a diversifi concern whose dial corp. unit market brand such as dial and purex and make both consum and institut soap products, said the acquisit now would cover borax product with annual sale total about $43 million.th addit product in the agreement consist of a line of hand soap and soap dispens sold under the boraxo and luron name for the medic market, and a hand cleaner line for the automot market, greyhound said. 
 the group has shelv plan to becom a european tv and radio power.hachett also recent explor and drop the idea of launch a nation daili newspap in france, to go with it line of 60 provinci week newspap and magazines. 
 at&t and sun sign a technology-shar agreement last fall call for at&t to licens mountain view, calif.-bas sun design for a new microprocessor chip and for sun to assist at&t in devis a standard version of it unix oper system.separately, unisi confirm it plan to announc tuesday a long-await mid-rang comput to bolster one of it age lines. 
 unisi said it probabl wouldn't start ship it new unix machin until the middl of next year.unisi new mid-rang comput to be unveil next week will be a version of it 1100 line long sold by sperri corp., accord to mr. blumenthal. 
 veteran of new age publish scoff at the ever-widen definit of the category.bantam book inc., a unit of bertelsmann ag of west germany, start it bantam new age book line eight year ago. 
 in turn, stora is a big custom of forestri chemic from swedish match and the two firm alreadi collabor on develop of new pulp bleach products.in recent years, swedish match has grown aggress by ad home-improv and packag acquisit to it origin line of match and other consum products. 
 ibm computer-market accord with ferranti herald a major ibm campaign to boost european sale of it new personal-comput line. 
 the wang and digit announc appear to indic that the midrang comput market in the u.s. is weaker than mani observ forecast at the begin of the year.among other midrang makers, armonk, n.y.-bas intern busi machin corp., which make comput of almost everi size, has been report disappoint sale of it midrang lines. 
 some japanese-mad microwav oven that use to cost about $235 now go for a littl over $130.sanyo electr co. replac a line of $700 small refriger with a new one start around $470. 
 world of wonder attribut the loss to plummet sale and delay in get it toy to market dure the christma season.th quarter loss includ a charg of $63.6 million for reserv to cover price reductions, estim loss for the liquid of a hong kong unit and dispos of excess materi relat to discontinu or slow-mov lines. 
 mr. whitwam hint that ge is make it bid to fend off possibl increas competit in the applianc market from whirlpool.h said whirlpool plan on expand roper current line of home applianc to compet direct with such line as ge hotpoint. 
 even devot player final grew bore as the latest game stop offer anyth new.nowadays, market are work to prevent a glut by pull older line off the shelf as more game are introduced. 
 in composit new york stock exchang trade yesterday, tandi share close at $40.25, off 50 cents.ibm introduc it ps/2 line last april, partial in a bid to regain market share lost to lower-cost clones. 
 offici said it will expand use of the new oper system to other vax comput in the next few months.although the new four-processor vax 8840 is digit most power comput ever, the line was introduc by digit vice presid of mid-rang systems, william demmer, which drew question from analysts. 
 c. olivetti & co. of italy, plus other he declin to identify.if a pact is reached, siemen and olivetti would either licens or buy from ibm the crucial part of ibm ps/2 line of comput and incorpor them into siemen and olivetti computers. 
 xerox secretari margi filter said crum & forster has help result in the past two years, and that xerox aim to boost it busi product and system sale through an emphasi on document processing.ms. filter note that xerox has absorb punish price competit from japanes manufactur and "re-establish itself with a premier copier line." 
 sinc then, it has been wide assum that mr. kelli would find some new way to get back into the acquisit game.spin off swift-eckrich, whose line includ the butterbal turkey brand, would leav mr. kelli in control of the core busi he know best.mani of the meat line were part of esmark inc., a conglomer that mr. kelli built in the 1970s. 
 the final quarter, which end jan. 2, should carri more than half of the expect 1987 earn of about $6.4 million, or 90 cent a share.full-year sale -- not includ the kaepa shoe line that the compani sold last year -- should total $313 million, down slight from $319 million. 
 wolverin world wide had post a 1986 loss of $12.6 million, larg attribut to a $9 million charg caus by the restructuring.th consolidation, which mr. gleason credit for the compani turnaround, also led to the close of five midwest and new england shoe factories, the sale of the kaepa athlet shoe line to a manag group, the sale of retail linen store and a manag restructuring. 
 "sinc we felt the pinch in the earli 1980s, we'v becom much more consumer-oriented," say jame preston, presid of avon beauti group.to it distress, avon learn a few year ago that mani women consid it makeup line "stodgy," it gift product overpr and it jewelri unfashionable. 
 so avon increas the number of gift item price under $15 and creat "more contemporary" jewelry.last month it revamp it lipstick and nail-polish line. 
 scott paper co. is look for a new advertis agenc to take over all but one of it u.s. consum product line now handl by j. walter thompson usa inc. and bbdo worldwid inc. 
 scott paper co. is look for a new advertis agenc to take over all but one of it u.s. consum product line now handl by j. walter thompson usa inc. and bbdo worldwid inc.th one except is the viva paper towel line, which will remain with bbdo. 
 time is also develop a children version of it high success sport illustr that mr. brack said is aim at encourag literaci while expand the magazin reach.h also said the magazin is develop a line of travel and vacat public on such subject as how to play golf, to be distribut by resort operators. 
 the 288-page book is base on time magazin man of the year issu featur the soviet leader.with the disband of the formal develop operations, "one of the main goal of everi publish and manag editor is to examin potenti expans or line extens of their properties," mr. brack said. 
 quaker fabric corp. said it sign a definit agreement to sell it tufted-velvet and flock-upholsteri fabric line to culp inc. for $5.6 million, subject to various adjustments. 
 but depend on the outcome, the episod could soil the squeaky-clean imag of one of the nation most success industri companies, and of it high regard chairman and chief execut officer, charl f. knight.a u.s. manag hero of sorts, mr. knight, oper in fierc competit global market for a broad line of industrial, consum and defens products, has extend to 30 year emerson unbroken streak of increas profits. 
 but it took bridgeston four year to make up it mind, and it did so onli after consider strengthen of the yen against the dollar.sourc say that beatric has had such premium food line as hunt tomato product and swift meat on the block in europ for a year, with no takers. 
 anoth group is negoti to licens a line of cloth creat by a team of 20 american and soviet designers.th line, "design for peace," will make it debut at the dalla apparel mart next month. 
 the cumbersom outfit "weren't made with hop on buse and get in and out of taxi in mind.""their attitud is, the more gizmo you can stick on a garment, the better," say laura kligh, one of the 10 american who spent three week in the georgian resort town of tbilisi in septemb craft part of the "design for peace" line. 
 lintas, which has had noxel as a client for 41 years, will continu to creat ad for the hunt valley, md., compani cover girl makeup and noxema skin cream lines.thos line bill an estim $60 million in advertis annually. 
 but ad industri executives, cosmet market and cosmet analyst said that while clarion sale have been strong, they have met neither the compani nor analyst expect sinc the product was launch with much hoopla in septemb 1986.clarion is a moder price line meant to appeal to women over 30 year old who have sensit skin. 
 "we are go to stay with the line becaus noxel has histor been a good vendor for us," he added.in it first three month on the market, sale of the clarion line total an estim $25 million. 
 mr. mottus ad that noxel may have been "spoil by" the success of it cover girl line.found in 1961, cover girl has grown to becom one of the two largest cosmet line sold in the u.s. 
 warner-lambert co. said it definit agre to acquir certain candi line from rjr nabisco inc. and ad that it expect first-quart per-shar earn to rise 20%. 
 the candi brands, which includ junior mints, charleston chew, sugar daddi and others, will becom part of warner-lambert american chicl group subsidiary.they broaden the compani confectioneri lines, give warner-lambert it first chocol candy. 
 "this is noth more than puffery, though i may be surpris tomorrow morning," he added.richard hanley, an independ analyst in new york, said that price discount on the old hoover line and other cost of the model changeov will depress first-quart results. 
 black & decker say it is pull it lite years, introduc in januari 1987, and just for me flashlights, introduc last month.th towson, md.-base applianc compani also say it will delay ship a line of smoke detector that contain the kodak ultralife. 
 polaroid request and kodak responses, disclos in feder court document unseal friday in boston, are part of a 12-year battl between the two companies.th court alreadi has rule that kodak line of instant camera and film introduc in 1976 infring on seven patent of polaroid, the founder of instant photographi and the onli other compani in the busi in the u.s. 
 with exist imprint in canada, australia and new zealand, doubleday hope to coordin public of titl throughout the english-speak world . . .who news: nan talese, vice presid and editor-in-chief of the adult trade divis of houghton mifflin co., will join doubleday next month as senior vice presid and editori director of her own line of book . . . 
 mr. mcgovern said sever product line show "solid volum performance," help by a 12% increas in market expenditures.among the top perform were ready-to-serv dri soups, beverages, fresh produce, the pepperidg farm line of bake goods, mrs. paul kitchen fish products, prego sauc and swanson frozen entrees. 
 but under the ir notice, invest compani now are requir to recogn ani built-in gain that would have been realiz if the compani had liquid befor merg into the fund.a a result, some fund don't expect to be do much in the merger line anymore. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc some long-await softwar that will make it current line of mainfram run a bit faster and will open the way for far more sophist applications. 
 in addition, ibm introduc two mainfram that fill in hole in the sierra product line -- the 280e, which has two processors, and the 500e, which contain five.ibm also extend the rang of it 4381 line of mid-rang comput by announc two high-end machin that run the new oper system software. 
 while he wouldn't estim the sale price, analyst have estim that it would exceed $1 billion.kraft also told analyst it plan to develop and test a line of refriger entre and desserts, under the chilleri brand name. 
 on feb. 9, american standard rebuf an unsolicit $65-a-share, or $2.03 billion, takeov offer from black & decker, a towson, md., maker of power tool and household appliances.new york-bas american standard has plumb and air-condit businesses, which black & decker believ would be a good fit with it own consum tool and applianc lines. 
 champion product inc. said it reach an agreement with nation footbal leagu properti inc. to produc and market "replica" footbal jersey bear the identif of the 28 nfl teams.champion products, which make and market athletic, recreat and leisur wear, said the line of jersey will be ship in august. 
 the price increas come at a time when chrysler has alleg that japanes auto maker are "dumping" vehicl in the u.s. market at price below cost.last week at the chicago auto show, gerald greenwald, chairman of chrysler chrysler motor corp. unit, defend the compani against critic who said that chrysler was also dump it own import line in the u.s. market. 
 the bridgeston deal "might have been more attractive," mr. milli said, if fireston had a propos acquisit in sight for it cash from the joint ventur rather than the prospect of a signific reduct in operations.nonetheless, mr. milli applaud the move over an outright sale of the tire asset becaus the present arrang ensur that fireston retail store will continu to be suppli with firestone-brand tire and that fireston network of about 3,500 independ dealer also could have a broader line of tires. 
 the declin "was particular significant" in the fourth quarter, the compani said.polaroid said it would be introduc camera system for under $100 in the first half of 1988, and would be appli it newer spectra instant-film technolog to it 600 camera line, which has been on the market for about seven years. 
 honeywel bull inc. introduc three model of it dps 7000 famili of medium-scal computers, along with softwar for them.th minneapolis-bas compani said the model 72, 82 and 92 extend the dps 7000 line of mainfram introduc last april. 
 the furnitur maker said the close held berkshir and allegheni oper have combin annual sale of $32 million.berkshir sell a special line of bed and dayb and allegheni make berkshir metal bed and suppli part and semi-finish product to other home furnish manufacturers. 
 black & decker first approach american standard in novemb to negoti a friend merger.black & decker believ american standard plumb and air-condit busi are a logic extens of it consum tool and applianc lines. 
 "peopl perceiv ryder as the yellow (rental) trucks," mr. burn says."whil that a valuabl line, it less than 15% of the company." 
 mr. shea note that in 1987 spiegel drop low-profit-margin merchandis such as lawn mowers, chain saws, most camera and most toys, to concentr on apparel.discontinu line account for $30 million in 1986 sales. 
 the new system softwar will be abl to handl far more complex program and work much faster with huge data bases.it will final take advantag of some advanc characterist in ibm 3090 line of mainfram that were introduc three year ago. 
 the talks, first report in crain chicago business, mark an appar attempt by the two compani to expand joint market efforts.last year, chicago-bas sear launch it mckid line of children cloth under an exclus licens agreement with oak brook, ill.-bas mcdonald's.sear offici consid the line successful, with annual sale now estim to exceed $100 million. 
 the rate agenc said the downgrad result from emhart aggress acquisit program."emhart is like to make a major acquisit in the next two year as it seek to fulfil it strateg object of reposit the busi mix toward product with more promis profit and growth prospect than it tradit capit equip lines," the rate agenc said. 
 "there are over 800 toy compani in america" and most in galoob revenu rang who were concentr on market toy "much abov the $50 rang were hurt in 1987," said steven eisenberg who follow the toy industri for bear, stearn & co. galoob, however, with practic no debt, isn't like to be anoth wow and should rebound to profit in the "50 cent to 75 cent a share range" this year assum an accept product mix, mr. eisenberg said.toy compani in general are like to be "head back to basics" with lower-pr product make up most of their mix; galoob, which will unveil it new line of toy to analyst this week, is like to follow that pattern, accord to mr. eisenberg. 
 compaq comput corp. report it fourth-quart net incom more than tripl and sale more than doubled, despit the first full brunt of competit from intern busi machin corp. newest person comput line. 
 the most power comput in that line, which challeng compaq microcomput aim at big businesses, weren't avail in larg quantiti until the fourth quarter.when the armonk, n.y.-bas comput giant debut the ps/2 line last april 2, some industri watcher predict that compaq and mani other comput maker might be bad hurt by the ibm machines, which incorpor chang to the comput design ibm had use sinc 1981 in it origin pc line. 
 ms. cool said she suspect kodak might exit the busi becaus it hadn't introduc an improv version of the disk sinc februari 1986.kodak product announc last month includ everyth but disk camera -- two new 35mm camera lines, a new 110 camera and a new dispos camera. 
 he said he doesn't expect kodak will resum product of the disk.h expect the current disk manufactur capac to be shift to produc a line of recent introduc 35mm cameras. 
 donald p. kelli and kohlberg kravi robert & co. are in talk that could lead to anoth beatric co. spinoff or to mr. kelli buy one or more of beatric huge food lines. 
 mr. kelli and kohlberg kravi took beatric privat in a leverag buy-out two year ago.but beatric has individu food lines, includ swift meat and hunt tomato products, that could easili be spun off. 
 part becaus he was distract by his e-ii role, mr. kelli has had troubl peddl the whole company.th most like spin-off candid are the swift meat line and tropicana juices, analyst said. 
 such a high-end product "is a checkoff item for scientif and engin shop commit to one vendor," said john logan, an analyst with yanke group in boston.thos compani want to know that they could buy high-end graphic workstat that work with the rest of the line, he explained. 
 it move it person comput divis into the same group as it older typewrit division, a sign that those two market are converging.it also move a slow-sel line of midrang comput into the same group as ibm core business: the larg mainfram comput that run most big compani and govern finances. 
 other analyst said they believ mr. aker assert that the separ is a sign of ibm high hope for the 3x, which has more than 250,000 customers.on of ibm biggest new product of 1988 will be the first major addit to the 3x line in years, a machin code-nam "silverlake." 
 in a year-old disput just made public, marshal field has challeng the use of the mrs. field cooki name.chicago-bas marshal field said it learn last year that mrs. fields, a chain of store known for it cookies, was interest in bring out a line of cloth under the name mrs. fields. 
 qmax technolog group inc., dayton, ohio, said it is offer a new line of skin-treat gel for use by cosmet compani in their skin-car products.th line is relat to a famili of drug similar to retin-a, a vitamin a-rel compound made by a unit of johnson & johnson, a new brunswick, n.j.-base health-car product company. 
 most importantly, consult say, as presid of ibm communic product divis last year, she was one of the few execut to exceed her 1987 budget project and has becom a proteg of power ibm execut terri lautenbach.a the newli name general manag of ibm communic system group, mrs. hancock, 44 year old, take respons for about $4 billion to $5 billion in revenu from ibm entir line of telecommun products. 
 to better tap this embryon but tradit hard-to-reach market, the nation no. 3 aluminum maker said it was reorgan it european oper under a new unit.reynold also said it was look to beef up other consumer-product line there, includ aluminum foil and packaging. 
 he said that teradyn problem began when intel corp. select semiconductor tester from rival ltx corp., westwood, mass., for it high success new microprocessors.motorola corp. is believ to be decid between ltx and teradyn tester for it microprocessor line. 
 for the year end sept. 27, sale were $1.9 billion.american standard has made restructur moves, strengthen it posit in the repair and remodel market and emphas line with higher margins. 
 microcom make comput communic equipment.meridian market the carbon copi line of software. 
 ncr corp., ballyhoo the increas flexibl of it popular tower comput system, broaden the line for high-end and low-end user with four new models. 
 mr. gray said the same softwar system -- name the unix network, develop by american telephon & telegraph co. -- can be use on each tower model.in turn, that make individu comput programs, be they as simpl as a spreadsheet or as complex as control factori equipment, compat with everi part of the tower line. 
 but, with the introduct of the four ncr models, none seem quit as extensive."thi line is a bit fuller," said wendi abramowitz, an analyst with argus research corp., in new york. 
 the 32/200 is schedul to be avail in april, with a suggest list price of $5,445.the 32/850, now the most power on the tower supermicrocomput line, can serv as mani as 512 users. 
 but mr. shapiro say the compani may have a tougher sale job with simpless than it had with nutrasweet, sinc consum had seen sugar-substitut before.a a result, the compani is consid bring out it own line of food product contain simplesse. 
 revenu rose 4% to $281.7 million from $270.8 million.irv gould, chairman and chief execut officer, said demand for all product "exceed expectations" while the amiga line "is be establish solid and current repres 40% of total revenues." 
 but design are also offer women the shorter look with a bit more modesty.donna karan show culott in her spring line. 
 he expect more pant in the fall collection.but design say they haven't abandon the longer skirt and plan to includ it in their fall line as one option. 
 but sterl group inc., a houston investment-bank concern that special in leverag buy-outs, confirm it recent form sgi to purchas artcarved.artcarved, which make a line of diamond, wed and class rings, had annual sale exceed $100 million last year. 
 last september, brown-forman said it was consid the sale of the divis to focus it oper on alcohol beverages, china and luggage.in juli 1986, brown-forman liquid it unprofit keepsak jewelri line. 
 the oslo-bas comput maker earlier this month slash it estim of 1987 pretax earn to half the 475 million kroner ($74.8 million) post for 1986.norsk data intend to widen the intern market share of it success line of integr newspap and publish systems. 
 eastman kodak co., expand both it high-end and low-end camera line, introduc four new cameras, includ a 35mm version that will like sell for less than $50. 
 unit share close at $34.50, down 87.5 cents, in new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday.quart sale grew in flight systems, which includ sikorski helicopters, and defens electron and aircraft product lines; build systems, primarili oti elev and carrier air-condit systems; and industri products, such as automot products, essex wire and cable, and control systems. 
 in addition, mainfram sale rose a bit even though they have been ship in volum for three year and sale could normal be expect to slip at this stage of the product cycle.ibm said sale of the new line of person comput were strong. 
 said h.p. smith, an analyst with smith barney, harri upham & co., "the sale price is particular disconcert given the fact that the compani had been indic there were a larg number of compani express interest in this business."gould has been tri for 17 month to sell it defens businesses, and still has it larg navcom system unit and sever smaller line to sell. 
 sale rose to $243.4 million from $214.6 million.th groceri product concern, which also make paints, stain and product for the food-servic industry, said shipment were up in all it lines. 
 wine group is a san francisco-bas limit partnership.glenmore, a distil beverag producer, said it may redeploy the cash in it exist lines. 
 last july, scott chairman philip lipincott set a sale target of $1 billion for europ by 1990, constitut about a fourth of total compani sales.among scott european brand are andrex, the lead bathroom tissu in britain, and le trefle, a popular french line of sanitari paper goods.scott also market cotonell bathroom tissu in itali and the sancel line in spain. 
 soni corp. last year introduc it my first soni line of audio product for children four and up.fisher-pric toys, a divis of quaker oat co., roll out a $225 kid camcord this christmas, a pricey departur from it mainstay line of preschool toys. 
 one analyst said he thought increas competit in the market for 286-base comput was also behind the price cut."pric pressur is realli heat up in this area," said jim poyner, an analyst with rauscher pierc refsn inc. mr. poyner predict a few week ago in an invest report that compaq would have to cut price becaus of aggress price cut by ibm. offici price of ibm lastest line of comput haven't chang sinc the machin were introduc april 2, but mr. poyner believ ibm import direct sale force, which sell comput to larg corporations, is offer bigger discounts. 
 onc known as a pretzel maker, j&j has broaden it product base by acquir sever compani in recent years.among it newer line are cookies, frozen juic and churros, a hispan specialti pastry. 
 in 1987, the compani acquir a control interest in icee-usa, a market of semi-frozen carbon beverages, and vernon, calif.-bas southern food products, a maker of bake goods.j&j also acquir the frostar line of frozen treat and trotter soft pretzels. 
 deer & co. said it plan to lay off indefinit about 150 worker at it construction-equip assembl plant here.th maker of farm, industrial, and lawn and garden equip said the layoff are due to complet of the introduct of a new line of crawler-bulldoz and what a spokesman call "minor reduct in product schedules." 
 one of these, the premier, is especi important.it is the first model in the new eagl brand of car that chrysler plan to sell through the 1,400 dealer it ad to it distribut network when it pick up american motors. (the eagl line isn't to be confus with the eagl model former sold by amc.) 
 that compani popular and profit jeep model were a major reason chrysler made the acquisition.but chrysler figur it can get the most bang for it buck by creat a new line of car that appeal to jeep owner -- typic young and upscal type who now buy, say, a saab to go along with their jeep. 
 but consum aren't easili swayed."th tough part is how long will it take" to get a good car line for eagle, say mr. iacocca. 
 analyst said the softwar should help ashton-t remov some of the consider concern over whether it can updat the vener dbase product to keep up with the new generat of comput hardwar and operating-system software.for microsoft, analyst said the agreement will ensur that it can offer the general public the sort of product that intern busi machin corp. has promis it custom with it newest line of person computers. 
 but emhart isn't abandon it past as a consum and industri product compani either, as the stanadyn bid shows.emhart is primarili interest in stanadyn moen brand of plumb products, which emhart say would make a natur fit with it consum hardwar and housewar lines. 
 gm has schedul overtim shift tomorrow at it baltimor truck plant and for postal vehicl product at it moraine, ohio, truck plant.gm pontiac, mich., west plant, which build blazer and jimmi sport util trucks, will be close until jan. 18 for instal of a new engin line. 
 dow has indicated, however, that it appetit isn't yet filled.last week, it offer to acquir a.h. robin over-the-count drug line from rorer group for $950 million if rorer should be the success bidder for robins. 
 however, the decis to entertain buyer for talbot and eddi bauer repres a turnabout for general mills.at the septemb annual meeting, chairman h. brewster atwat jr. outlin ambiti growth plans, includ 15 to 20 new outlet and introduct of a children line for eddi bauer, and a $190 million expans for talbot retail and direct-market operations. 
 as previous reported, the palo alto-bas company, onc known as coopervis inc., last year unsuccess sought to be acquired.th compani has sold it ophthalm pharmaceut line and current oper includ medic diagnost and ophthalmalog surgic equip and lenses. 
 market the vidal sassoon product to retail and catalog showroom account for about 80% of it business.helen of troy also sell it own line of profession hair-car applianc to salons, about 10% of it sales. 
 the new agenc is like to be a much smaller one than thompson, an industri sourc said.thompson recent account loss includ pillsburi co. $200 million burger king corp. account, $100 million of ford motor co. busi in europ and latin america, the $30 million account for pepsico inc. slice soft drink line, and a dozen smaller accounts. 
 the ad agenc compet for the saturn account haven't been given mani detail about the car saturn will make.th saturn line is expect to featur car that are smaller and lighter than the current gm cars. 
 maytag corp. said it plan to spend an addit $30 million to upgrad and expand it galesburg, ill., plant, which make the admir line of appliances. 
 "the complex and uncertainti of a possibl takeover" of rorer "have to hurt it chances," said h. arvid johnson, robin senior vice presid and general counsel.moreover, robin has react negat to rorer recent propos to financ a more generous bid by sell off some of robin prize consum drug lines, such as robitussin cough syrup, chap stick lip balm and dimetapp cold remedies. 
 design a product for able-bodi peopl so it also use to the handicap sometim requir onli imagination, not much money, as can be seen in a coupl of recent innovations.standard softwar for appl comput inc. macintosh line includ a file call "easi access" for peopl who can't type with both hand or have troubl manipul the mouse. 
 paris-bas kaysersberg, with annual sale of about $725 million, oper six plant and employ 3,600 workers.it market a broad line of towel and tissue, personal-car and health-car product in france, west germany, itali and the benelux countries. 
 equal unfound is mr. kelli implic that the american brand board of director has not been aggress seek meaning to enhanc sharehold value."american brand best-known line are it cigarett brands, includ pall mall, tareyton and lucki strike. 
 the compani also own such major liquor brand as jim beam, old granddad and old crow.oth line includ swinglin offic products, case cutlery, titleist and foot-joy golf item and master locks. 
 in 1986, mr. kelli was name as beatric chairman when it was acquir by kohlberg kravi robert & co., a new york invest concern, in a $6.2 billion leverag buy-out.in july, he took beatric non-food busi and some smaller specialti food line public as e-ii holdings. 
 it previous offer was about 13.3 million shares.ror also told robin that it revis acquisit propos "contemplates" the sale of robin over-the-count drug lines, such as robitussin, chap stick and dimetapp, to merrel dow pharmaceut inc. for $950 million.ror said it hadn't enter a formal agreement with merrel dow, a unit of dow chemic co. merrel dow offer in may to buy those line direct from robins. 
 the vms 5.0 -- price at up to $3,975 -- won't be found at record store near you, however.th digit program is the new oper system that control the basic function of the popular vax line of computers. 
 offici of the record industri associ of america, the group lead the opposit to digit tape recorders, couldn't be reach for comment.separately, as expected, tandi unveil a person computer, the tandi 5000, compat with ibm person system/2 line. 
 hachette, which claim it is now the world fourth-biggest media company, behind bertelsmann, capit cities/abc inc., and time inc., is be driven abroad in part by challeng at home.group de la cite, a recent agglomer of publish companies, is in most of hachett line and own half of the world biggest book club, which sell at great profit 26 million book a year to one frenchman in everi five. 
 contain kodacolor "gold," the box promin display that word in gold-color foil against a black background and a gold band run across the center of the box.th new print film and name will be market world-wid and will replac kodak high success line of vr-g films. 
 the compani doesn't disclos how much of it revenu -- $13.3 billion in 1987 -- is deriv from film sales, but film is kodak cash cow.th vr-g line of 35mm color-print amateur film, introduc three year ago, is aim at the fastest-grow market for film. 
 "microsoft has done a much better job in deliv new product to market than lotus," mr. sherlund said."they seem to get more bang from their r&d line than lotus." 
 spy, the bratti month magazin that tweak new york rich and powerful, will launch a new line of book with dolphin/doubleday this fall. 
 he predict continu strong sale of such recent product as the cordless screwdriver, air station air pump, handi chopper food processor and spacemak popcorn popper.a part of the new strategy, the compani has been develop innov in it line of power-tool accessories, includ piranha saw blade and bullet pilot point drill bits. 
 parker hannifin corp. said it complet the previous announc acquisit of pullman co. brune hydraul and waterman hydraul divis for $24.5 million.th acquisit broaden parker hydraul part product line. 
 grow group, which make household product and specialti chemic coat and paints, also said it expect to report a loss from continu oper for the third quarter end march 31 of about $1 million.in the year-earli period, earn from continu line were $773,000. 
 in the chemic group, increas sale of mine reagents, water-treat chemic and engin materi contribut to the gains.meanwhile, the compani consumer-product business, the shulton group, had higher sale of such household line as pine-sol liquid cleaner and combat pest-control products. 
 dell comput corp., as expected, becam the first compani to announc copi of intern busi machin corp. year-old person system/2 comput line, but dell model won't be avail until the fourth quarter. 
 a warhol calendar is in the works, but mr. schlaifer also envis warhol posters, note cards, bathmats, shop bags, ties, handbag and scarfs.ther are talk with bloomingdal about a housewar line. 
 it didn't break out product-lin results, but a spokesman said it world-wid mainfram shipment rose from the year-earli quarter and that the compani saw "continu strength" from mainframes.th biggest shot in the arm for ibm may have been the februari announc of an unglamor but pivot import product: a new piec of softwar to control the basic work of ibm three-year-old sierra line of mainframes. 
 the biggest shot in the arm for ibm may have been the februari announc of an unglamor but pivot import product: a new piec of softwar to control the basic work of ibm three-year-old sierra line of mainframes.som analyst believ the thousand of corpor and govern that run their financ on million-dollar ibm mainfram hadn't previous had a compel reason to trade up to the sierra line. 
 the current quarter should go a long way to clarifi ibm long-term outlook by resolv some crucial question outsid the mainfram marketplace.ibm year-old ps/2 person comput line will see it first clone enter the market, begin with some announc next week. 
 specul in the industri is that ibm will pull the wrap off silverlak on june 21.it has huge potenti for ibm becaus it will be pitch as a replac for a line with more than 275,000 current customers, the 3x. 
 as for at&t view of the bargain, it manag say that while olivetti machin fit well with at&t u.s. product line, it wouldn't be difficult for at&t to find anoth source.at&t has been dissatisfied, moreover, with olivetti sale of it 3b2 minicomput and system 75 phone switchboard line in europe. 
 polaroid corp., as expected, unveil a new low-pric line of instant camera call impulse. 
 he disclos how vulner anyon who cover the white hous is to the anonym aid who dispens quot everi day.i think anonym quot are often useful, even important, but everyon know they can also be a tool to push a sourc latest line. 
 "the market still seem to be strong, the traffic is good.w anticip sell out (to dealers) earlier this year than in past year on virtual all car and truck lines." 
 but, he adds, "not all the product and merchandis have been chang yet to be consist with that focus."gm dug a hole for itself, as compani offici see it, by blur the distinct between buick and oldsmobile, and between those car and other gm lines. 
 for a half-century, the compani divis form a progression: a custom start with a chevrolet, switch to a pontiac if he was flashy, progress to a more conserv oldsmobil and then a more opul buick, and finally, if he made it big, land a cadillac.then came the look-alik era of the earli 1980s, when gm downsiz it model line and cut cost by share mani basic part across divisions. 
 execut of at&t data system group have said last year fourth-quart sale of person comput were hurt by slow deliveri from olivetti.at&t also has been unhappi with olivetti launch a minicomput line in europ that compet with at&t 3b line, instead of tri harder to sell at&t products. 
 at&t olivetti machin run on intern busi machin corp. oper systems, and the presid of at&t data system group, vittorio cassoni, who came from olivetti in 1986, said at&t doesn't have ani plan to emphas unix on the desktop.at&t has said it plan to use unix run on sun power sparc microprocessor for it new line of minicomput due out next year. 
 digit equip corp. is expect to introduc short a seri of new comput to replac the middl of it popular vax line. 
 in performance, they will overlap sever ibm computers, includ part of the ibm 9370 line and the 4381 line.analyst specul that digit is anxious to announc calypso befor ibm introduc the silverlak line. 
 we are neither seek or solicit offers."mr. smilow said the compani will go ahead with previous disclos plan to sell it jhirmack inc. hair-car line. 
 mr. teet say that "we'v been restructur for four year and basic we'v just finish up" with a way to shed the loss-produc verex mortgag insur business.last fall, the former food-servic execut bought the dobb hous airport restaur and other food-servic line from carson piri scott for $326 million, boost debt to about 50% of total capital. 
 just now, though, the two industri are more apart than together.som analyst contend, moreover, that at&t can do better computer it phone network than creat it own line of computers. 
 a spokesman said the new label don't address qualiti or pricing, but instead attempt to organ sear current offer accord to lifestyl of custom it is targeting.th apostroph line, for example, extend and bring togeth under a singl contemporari label the cheryl tieg casual cloth and stefani power career cloth alreadi sold in sear stores. 
 ibm never challeng the right of mani clone-mak to replic it earlier machines.ibm has indic that it expect legal clone of it ps/2 line to appear, but didn't expect them to arriv quit so fast, and has said it certain wouldn't do anyth to make life easier for the clone makers. 
 near everi cosmet is sold under the pretend imprimatur of one or both of these oracles.th sale forc for este lauder cliniqu line, for instance, dress in white lab coat to hustl it hospital-green bottl and tubes. 
 sun microsystem will unveil today a line of general-purpos comput workstat built around intel popular 80386 microprocessor. 
 "we own the roper brand name.w attain that object and we have full intent to proceed with our plan to introduc a full line of roper home appliances," mr. whitwam said. 
 and he flunk his first screen test; the studio reject his cockney accent, his "bowlegs" and his "thick neck."yet he still becam the flagship of hollywood dreamboat line. 
 some, such as monsanto co., have shed near all their commod chemicals.others, such as dow chemic co., are retain certain basic product and build complementari specialti lines. 
 general time produc watch and clock sold under the westclox, big ben and babi ben and seth thoma names.talley has been restructur it oper to emphas businesses, includ it automot air bag line, that have higher growth rates. 
 campbel soup co. said it will introduc sever frozen-breakfast products, signific expand it effort in one of the food industri fastest grow segments.in may, the camden, n.j.-base soup maker will roll out a new line of 99-cent frozen budget breakfasts, as well as a microwav belgian waffl that requir a tricki technolog feat to make it palatable. 
 follow the announc yesterday morning, price pfister share soar $7 to close at $17.50 in nation over-the-count trading.emhart, a maker of industrial, consum and electron goods, said price pfister residential-plumb line would complement emhart construct and do-it-yourself products. 
 in addition, the product reli on special packaging, frequent use in other microwav product like pizza, to help keep it crispi on the outside.campbell, which alreadi has a $1.29 to $1.69 line of frozen breakfast call swanson great starts, isn't alon in pursu breakfast-eaters. 
 so edwin lopez, who is tri to claim some space on those shelv for new product from campbel soup co., has his work cut out.mr. lopez is work hispan neighborhood tri to break down the fierc loyalti to goya product and make inroad for campbel new casera line of more than 50 food product aim at hispan of caribbean origin. 
 benihana nation corp., miami, plan to close it unprofit big splash-seafood emporium restaur line as part of it drive to "get back to basics" and focus on japanes cooking, joel schwartz, president, said in an interview. 
 it fell 3 1/8 to 82 1/2 after it said will ceas product of chlorofluorocarbons, a famili of chemic that have been found to damag the atmospher ozon layer.du pont is the nation largest produc of the chemicals, though the line is a relat small part of it business. 
 the emphasi on headgear is expect to last at least through the fall.christian lacroix fall line, for example, includ velvet and flower worn close to the head. 
 intel corp., which fled the comput memory-chip busi in 1985, took a tentat step toward re-ent it by agre to market memori chip made by micron technolog inc., one of onli two u.s. concern that still make them.santa clara, calif.-bas intel -- which make a broad line of semiconductor product -- along with most other big u.s. chip makers, quit make so-cal dram, or dynam random access memory, chip after japanes chip maker flood the u.s. with cheap memori chip earlier in the decade. 
 in fact, some lawyer say, the appl suit itself could well turn on a 1986 decis involv stuf dinosaurs.in that case, decid in 1986 by robert p. aguilar, the same san jose, calif., feder judg assign to hear the appl suit, a pair of toy design su a compani for infring their copyright on a line of dinosaur dolls. 
 it isn't clear whether the vehicl will retain the chevrolet name or just carri the chevi "bow tie" emblem.in ani event, chevrolet hope to launch geo this fall, almost two year befor the debut of gm saturn car line, anoth new namepl that, unlik geo, will also be a separ franchise. 
 h.j. heinz co. said it star-kist food inc. unit enter a definit agreement to buy the pet-food oper of california home brand hold inc. term weren't disclosed.california home brand line consist primarili of can dog and cat foods, includ the skippi premium, vets, sturdy, petuna and glamour puss labels. 
 that kind of world is an increas headach for ibm.it first line of pcs, born in 1981, was overrun by clone that had all the featur of a big blue comput for less money. 
 it bought the chip at the heart of the machin from intel corp. and the program that guid the machin basic function from then-fledgl microsoft corp.that made it easier for other compani to flank the ibm line with softwar and accessories. 
 regenc electron inc. said it agre to sell it consum product line to uniden corp. of america, also of indianapolis, for $12 million. 
 regenc electron inc. said it agre to sell it consum product line to uniden corp. of america, also of indianapolis, for $12 million.th maker of electron communic equip said the purchas price repres $8 million over the book valu of the products, which are the compani line of scanner and marin radios. 
 henley said it plan a public offer of $1 billion of subordin debentur to refin $980 million of bank debt now outstand under a $2.3 billion line of credit.th compani said it also expect to replac it exist line with a new facil total more than $2.5 billion. 
 but alf didn't make up for the declin cabbag patch sales, and industri analyst and buyer expect alf to slow consider this year.on problem, say a former execut who ask not to be identified, is that coleco has devot too much research-and-develop effort to expand it cabbag patch line, to littl avail. 
 but his most import move was to take ward away from it tradit approach of being, like sears, a private-label mass merchandiser.h transform ward into a low-pric specialti chain focus around such line as consum electron and home furnishings. 
 "we believ that if the ftc conduct the thorough review warrant here, it will agre with our position," mr. whitwam said.whirlpool has said it plan to expand roper line of kitchen rang into a broader select of household appliances.th compani has also charg that ge enter the bid for roper becaus the fairfield, conn.-bas compani fear competit from a whirlpool-rop combination, especi against it hotpoint applianc line. 
 often, debt is balloon by well-intent effort to reshap a compani business.allegheni intern inc., onc primarili a steel producer, set out a decad ago to strengthen it consumer-product lines, main through acquisitions. 
 a computer-market pact between intern busi machin corp. and britain ferranti intern plc herald a major ibm campaign to boost european sale of it new line of person computers.und the agreement announc last week, the medium-s british electron compani will relabel and sell ibm new ps/2 line of person comput along with it comput products. 
 mrs. tompkin feel that esprit move too fast at a time when it need to paus and reorient it image."expans put a lot of pressur on the {product} line," she says. 
 despit such extravagance, he adds, at least some esprit store are profitable.similar excess got esprit into troubl with some depart store sell it line. 
 offici of the compani said it will use the new chip as the heart of new model of it 4300 seri of workstations, which are capabl of produc three-dimensional, full-color graphic imag use in computer-aid engin and design.an earlier generat of microprocessor made by motorola power tektronix exist line of technic workstations. 
 ncr corp. introduc a new line of minicomput for link network of person comput or termin in offices. 
 the addit product in the agreement consist of a line of hand soap and soap dispens sold under the boraxo and luron name for the medic market, and a hand cleaner line for the automot market, greyhound said.a spokeswoman for greyhound said the negoti to buy the consum and industri line of the u.s. borax 20 mule team divis were handl separately, but that the purchas are expect to close at the same time. 
 not surprisingly, the market strong sale are attract big food processors.carn co., for example, is race to build a nation presenc with it contadina fresh pasta & chees line. 
 general food corp. is test it culinova gourmet entre and ronzoni refriger pasta and sauces.and kraft inc. recent began test it chilleri line of refriger salad as well as pizza kit and pasta-and-sauc dinners. 
 talley also said it may pay addit stock and cash if mcmullen achiev certain earn over the next five years.talley said the purchas is part of it previous announc restructur plan to focus on govern contracting, electron part and technic services, and sell it slow-grow consum lines. 
 welbilt corp. said it agre to distribut home applianc in the u.s. for bimak s.p.a., a florence, italy-bas maker of consum appliances.welbilt said it will distribut a line of small applianc includ cappuccino machines, irons, ice-cream machin and food processor under the ariet label. 
 a few store are bet heavili on higher hemlines.henri bendel, new york, say 90% of it line will be short for the spring. 
 compens soar to otherworld level as young wizard jump from firm to firm in pursuit of an ever-fast fortune.secur firm expand headlong, throw peopl and money at line that show even a glint of promise. 
 the credit line, to be use for work capital, extend through march 31, 1990, and replac a $60 million bank credit line that expir jan. 31.as previous reported, intern technolog said last month that it need to negoti addit credit, becaus cash from oper and exist bank credit wouldn't be enough to fund oper until the compani receiv proceed from the sale of certain discontinu lines. 
 digit equip lost 4 to close at 120 3/8.the compani introduc a new line of power comput call vax 8800. 
 ms. preston said she expect the tandi model will use a chip set from intel corp., santa clara, calif., that mimic the basic oper of the ibm computer.however, a former tandi employee, who ask not to be identified, said the key chip set would be made by chip & technolog inc., a milpitas, calif., compani that make chip use by a varieti of clone maker to copi ibm first generat person comput line. 
 ibm introduc it ps/2 line last april, partial in a bid to regain market share lost to lower-cost clones.ibm freeli allow other maker to copi the model in it pc line, start in 1981, to help establish it design in the face of competit from appl comput inc.but inexpens copi ate into ibm sales, and with the ps/2 line ibm indic it would guard it invent more closely. 
 the canadian concern, as expected, also sought to block payment of so-cal breakup fee to maci from federated.maci sec file confirm it previous report plan to sell feder discount-stor line and it ralph supermarket unit, as well as unspecifi depart stores. 
 canada elizabeth manley, who unexpect won a silver medal in figur skating, is be consid by three u.s. compani for ad that would run in canada and part of the u.s., say her agent, michael a. rosenberg of bever hills.anoth of his clients, u.s. figure-skat jill trenary, didn't even win a medal but is still be consid by a hair-car line, he says. 
 such arrang would dilut the compani control over sale of it technology, and could step on the toe of ibm sale repres and dealer by creat competit for them.th fact that the armonk, n.y., comput giant is will to consid such arrang larg reflect it attempt to establish it ps/2 line as a standard. 
 some competitors, such as compaq comput corp., have profit sinc the ps/2 introduct last april by sell to custom who didn't want to make the sometim awkward transit to the new ibm hardware.ibm itself continu to sell in europ part of it old line of computers, and mr. low said sale of those product have remain stronger than he expected. 
 olivetti also is respons for all personal-comput and workstat develop for american telephon & telegraph co., a relationship that could complic olivetti talk with ibm.in addition, clone of ibm ps/2 line are expect to be market in the u.s. soon. 
 intern busi machin corp. label as prematur a compani execut statement that ibm is discuss cooper with european rival in it new ps/2 line of person computers. 
 reagan thus becom the nation sixth-largest outdoor advertis company, with about 10,000 signs. . . .trim fat, wilson food corp. say it will follow it recent introduct of a 96% fat-fre ham product with a new deli lite line of low-cholesterol and low-fat deli meats. 
 the stronger sales, in fact, encourag gm to reduc the rebat on the model this week, to $500 from $600.but gm yesterday slap it first-ev incent on the new buick regal, the first in a new line of midsiz car the compani is count on to boost market share, becaus of less-than-robust sales. 
 first boston has been tri to sell beatric remain food businesses, includ swift-eckrich, sinc last september.but sourc said mr. kelli has ask wasserstein, perella & co. -- the new invest bank firm form by former first boston merger chief bruce wasserstein and joseph perella -- to peddl beatric tropicana juic lines. 
 but sourc said mr. kelli has ask wasserstein, perella & co. -- the new invest bank firm form by former first boston merger chief bruce wasserstein and joseph perella -- to peddl beatric tropicana juic lines.sourc said it is believ salomon inc. salomon brother inc. unit has been ask to sell two other beatric lines, hunt tomato product and wesson cook oil. 
 the chip is the piec of silicon that actual perform computations.th lisp chip is now avail onli in texa instrument explor ii line, which was introduc last summer. 
 but the compani further boost it shoe-lin develop staff by 50%, and plan to upgrad it remain 15 u.s. factories.mr. gleason said a number of wolverin lines, includ hush puppi casual shoes, brook athlet shoe and wolverin brand work shoes, began use new design or enter new area in the past year. 
 while microsoft would be prevent from sell it older program in brazil, the redmond, wash., compani would be assur of a possibl larger market for subsequ programs, they said.meanwhile, brasilia also appear to be retreat from a report plan to allow a brazilian compani to manufactur an imit of a wide use line of person comput design by appl comput inc. u.s. trade offici earlier said that brazil disregard for the patent right of u.s. comput maker was anoth reason for the threaten sanctions. 
 sparkl water brand asant and saratoga are be sold by anheus busch cos., along with the zeltzer seltzer natur soda line. 
 convex comput corp. today is expect to introduc a new line of mini-supercomput that it hope will broaden the appeal of the power machin beyond the univers and research institut that have been their mainstay. 
 at&t last develop agreement with a comput concern, sun microsystem inc., eventu led to at&t take a stake in that company.at&t forg the sun agreement to improv it own comput line. 
 canadian jeep/eagl dealer said sale have also suffer in canada becaus custom appear somewhat confus over the market nich that premier is attempt to fill.though the premier is aim direct at ford motor co. taurus and sabl line, some canadian dealer said buyer expect a less expens car in a price rang similar to the low-pric subcompact model amc former built. 
 then came talk that a french concern want to acquir u.s. consum product compani such as chicago pacif or the sunbeam unit of allegheni international, which file for chapter 11 protect from creditor last weekend.ther is also the new "elite" line of hoover vacuums, due to be unveil march 16 at a plaza hotel gala in new york. 
 control data corp. enhanc it general-purpos mainfram comput line with four top-end machin featur larger memori and more comput capacity. 
 greyhound corp. said it agre to purchas the borateem, boraxo and 20 mule team household product line and asset from the u.s. borax & chemic corp. unit of london-bas rtz corp. 
 kodak also disclos flaw that lower the suppos 10-year life of it ultralif nine-volt batteries.black & decker, one of kodak largest batteri customers, is pull thousand of flashlight from store and stop shipment of a new line of smoke detector that carri the battery. 
 intertorg inc., a sacramento, calif., importer, plan to set up a separ compani to introduc soviet fashion to the u.s., particular the creation of mr. zaitsev -- design to raisa gorbachev and the bolshoi ballet.anoth group is negoti to licens a line of cloth creat by a team of 20 american and soviet designers. 
 the soviet coutur has gotten quit haut of late, their fashion spokesmen insist.design there haven't ani intent of flood the u.s. with siberia-made, scratchi woolen sock or a line of apres-bowl wear. 
 but the compani is find synergi between beer and the snack-food busi a tougher nut to crack.anheus expect it eagl brand snack line to lose at least $10 million this year, and mr. ritter wouldn't estim for analyst when the line might becom profitable. 
 that bad news for black & decker corp., one of it larg customers.black & decker said it is pull thousand of flashlight from store shelv and stop shipment on a new line of smoke detector that carri kodak so-cal ultralif nine-volt battery. 
 however, the batteri didn't reach the mass market until the next year becaus of problem gear up production.kodak also market a line of japanese-mad alkalin batteries. 
 noxel corp. is about to give it clarion cosmet line a new advertis look. 
 the account is expect to bill about $20 million this year, make it one of the largest cosmet account in the u.s.lintas, which has had noxel as a client for 41 years, will continu to creat ad for the hunt valley, md., compani cover girl makeup and noxema skin cream lines. 
 the spokesman said that noxel has told the compani that the clarion product will be repackag and further promoted."w are go to stay with the line becaus noxel has histor been a good vendor for us," he added. 
 the noxel spokeswoman said that the compani doesn't break out sale of it individu product lines, but that clarion sale are "right on target" with the compani expectations.market most in drug stores, the clarion line use comput to help custom choos their makeup shades. 
 mr. mottus said noxel will probabl have to focus on one or the other in it advertising.mr. mottus ad that noxel may have been "spoil by" the success of it cover girl line. 
 polaroid corp. disclos friday it is seek $5.7 billion in damag from kodak as a result of it success patent infring suit.and black & decker corp. last week said it was pull two line of flashlight off the shelv becaus of flaw in the kodak ultralif nine-volt lithium batteri that power them. 
 warner-lambert co. said it definit agre to acquir certain candi line from rjr nabisco inc. and ad that it expect first-quart per-shar earn to rise 20%.term of the candi line transact weren't disclosed. 
 but those shortag should eas as the year progresses.in addition, ibm, which has been heavili discount part of it latest pc line, has indic it will put veri low price on some product it will bring out this year.ibm said last week, for instance, that by rough year end, it will have a product at the price of it entry-level model 25 but that contain the central processor use in it model 50 and 60, which are the middl of it line and cost far more than the model 25. 
 comput autom inc. is an obscure, thin trade california compani that has been plung into a patent controversi in the fractious person comput market.at issu is a comput autom design that intern busi machin corp. quiet arrang to use insid it new line of person computers, the ps/2. 
 rumor circul about the patent last year, but inform was scarc until comput autom last month made a second announcement.it said the patent cover a memori process use insid the top model of the ps/2 line, and said ibm would pay the firm an undisclos royalti on sale of those models. 
 mr. richman said glenview, ill.-bas kraft expect profit increas for the year, but didn't specifi how much.earn also are expect to benefit from a lower tax rate, a productivity-improv campaign that could reduc expens $25 million and the divestitur of kraft duracel batteri unit, celesti season tea line, citrus busi and avoset, a contract packer, the compani said. 
 anticip shelf life of the product would rang from two to four weeks.last year kraft test-market a line of chill chocol and salads. 
 allegi rose 7/8 to 72 on volum of 473,600 shares.ashton-t unveil a new line of dbase iv data base manag softwar design for os-2 and ms-dos-bas person computers. 
 gerald greenwald, chairman of chrysler chrysler motor unit, said that mitsubishi motor corp. will produc the car in japan until a new chrysler-mitsubishi joint-ventur plant in normal, ill., is complet in 1989.the summit will be the third car in the eagl line of chrysler new jeep/eagl division. 
 in miami, the wealthiest latin enclav in the u.s., american express co. plan to featur promin hispan in a spanish-languag version of it portrait campaign.and campbell, asid from promot it soup, is make a major push into the hispan market with a line of caribbean-typ foods. 
 mr. canion also said compaq, which has tradit tri to outpac ibm in hardwar enhancements, was follow ibm in announc the avail of os/2 becaus the oper system "is an area where you don't want two compani fight over which version is right."ibm maintain that os/2 will run faster and with clearer graphic on it person system/2 line of comput than on compar compaq computers. 
 the japanese, meanwhile, are emphas luxuri car with hot engin and price under $30,000.nissan motor co. and toyota motor co. plan to unveil new luxuri line in 1989. 
 however, onli $18.1 million, or 39 cent a share, was attribut to ongo activities, with earn of $80.3 million come from the greyhound capit corp. oper that was sold in octob 1986.in the latest quarter, profit attribut to continu line was $18.5 million, or 49 cent a share. 
 intern busi machin corp. disclos that it comput hardwar profit margin rose at the end of 1987, surpris industri analyst and suggest that it long spell of erod profit may final be over.separately, industri sourc said ibm will make a major mainfram announc next tuesday, and specul that it will includ long-await softwar enhanc that would serv as a midlif kicker for ibm tire mainfram line. 
 isoetec communic inc. of darien, conn., and vodavi technolog corp., scottsdale, ariz., said they complet their plan purchas of the executon divis of contel corp. for $61 million.each compani purchas a 50% stake in executone, which market and servic a line of busi telephon systems. 
 analyst read the results, which were in line with most estimates, as indic that compaq is still success beat back competit from ibm new ps/2 line.th most power comput in that line, which challeng compaq microcomput aim at big businesses, weren't avail in larg quantiti until the fourth quarter. 
 h.j. heinz co., whose star-kist line is a major produc of tuna and pet foods, said it agre to acquir close held bumbl bee seafood inc. of san diego. 
 the latest quarter includ a gain of $2.5 million, or one cent a share, from discontinu operations.year-earli result includ a $2.5 million loss from discontinu lines. 
 analyst estim ibm ship onli 3,000 to 4,000 units.th postal servic contract alon could produc purchas of as mani as 904 ibm minicomput -- either the various model of the 9370 line or a model of the more power 4300 line. 
 qmax technolog group inc., dayton, ohio, said it is offer a new line of skin-treat gel for use by cosmet compani in their skin-car products. 
 e-ii was name as esmark reincarnation.sinc april 1986, he has sold or taken public eight major part of beatrice, includ it intern playtex inc. person product line and avi rental car chain, for about $6.1 billion.kohlberg kravi and it investor are about even on their investment, and beatric most valuabl food line are still unsold. 
 donald kelli is hold talk with kohlberg kravi that could lead to anoth beatric co. spinoff, or to mr. kelli buy one or more of beatric huge food lines. 
 nashua corp. said it agre to buy low-pric copier and relat suppli from mita industri co. of japan for distribut outsid the u.s.nashua said the mita line will complement the midrang ricoh co. copier and expens intern busi machin corp. copier it distribut outsid the u.s. 
 oper profit, exclud a sharp rise in interest expense, more than quadrupl to $43.6 million, main becaus of a rebound in the film entertain unit, which had $24.5 million in pretax earnings, compar with a year-earli oper loss of $49.4 million.but mca said it toy product had a pretax loss of $21.6 million, compar with year-earli profit of $10 million, becaus of disappoint sale and shipment delay in the gotcha! toy line. 
 weyerhaeus co. said earn in it fourth quarter end dec. 27 jump 35% on a 23% sale increase, as the dollar declin strengthen market for mani lines. 
 dure mr. gray tenur at unit technologies, the compani bet billion of dollar on two new engin that, so far at least, aren't pay off.mr. gray cancel a third engin project, leav a gape hole in pratt & whitney line that fanci engin footwork permit ge to fill. 
 chanel also plan to run ad in the wall street journal.consult to the beauty-product busi believ este lauder inc. and cosmair inc. lancom line are like to follow archriv chanel lead in test new media. 
 moreover, mr. gray said, tower are so-cal "open-architecture" computers, mean they are easili adapt to equip made by other companies.analyst said a few other line -- notabl digit equip corp. microvax ii and a seri made by san jose, calif.-bas alto comput system inc. -- are equal tractable. 
 he will be respons for a reorgan market organization, and will continu to overse sales, servic and part operations."thi realign put car and truck under one organization," mr. iacocca said in a statement yesterday, "and will allow us to place increas concentr on domest product-develop activ for all car and truck lines." 
 sequent make comput that har as mani as 30 so-cal parallel microprocessor to provid the power of a convent mainfram comput for a much lower cost.in the fourth quarter, sequent ship 80 comput systems, 37 of which repres the initi shipment of it new symmetri line of comput that use intel corp. state-of-the-art 80386 microprocessors. 
 the long-await clone of intern busi machin corp. new ps/2 line of person comput could be on dealer shelv as soon as may -- and even if custom aren't that eager for them, big blue lawyer are. 
 first, ibm will be take step to improv the posit of it 9370 minicomputer, by far the compani worst product disappoint of 1987.in addition, one of ibm biggest new product of the year will be a potenti lucrat addit to it midrang line. 
 term weren't disclosed.motorola, a maker of semiconductor and electron equipment, said the division, which has annual sale of about $35 million, will complement it exist line of radio frequenc semiconductors, which are use in mobil communications, cabl televis distribution, avionics, and other consum and industri applications. 
 such criticism, particular on the need for new products, "is an easi answer but i'm not sure it the right answer," counter mr. ferri."our tradit competitor don't have a much broader line, but they do better financi than we do. 
 market new interest in children reach far beyond toy counters, however.soni corp. last year introduc it my first soni line of audio product for children four and up. 
 thus, even compani that don't sell to children have come to recogn the need, as texa a&m mr. mcneal put it, "to start grow their custom early."black & decker corp. has licens it name to a line of toy that are miniatur version of it small appliances. 
 in addition, the compani is demand that dealer assign special showroom space, sale personnel and servic technician to the yugo cars.without this commitment, mr. prior worri that dealer will pay more attent to their main car line and "orphan" the yugo, just as sale for all auto maker are head into a slump. 
 quarter sale grew in flight systems, which includ sikorski helicopters, and defens electron and aircraft product lines; build systems, primarili oti elev and carrier air-condit systems; and industri products, such as automot products, essex wire and cable, and control systems.sal slip less than 1%, however, in the segment that includ the pratt & whitney engin lines. 
 analyst say p&g, which has been sell upgrad dispos diaper in europe, recent has come back strong there as a result of an intern restructur and is increas it market share.p&g sell ultra pamper and ultra pamper plus, a more absorb diaper line that has improv fasteners, mr. freedman said. 
 revenu for the latest period jump to $14 million from $8.7 million.softwar presid and chief execut officer, fred m. gibbons, said: "the continu strength in sale growth is a direct result of our success in sell to corpor accounts," with the compani harvard graphic and first choic softwar line pace the advance. 
 the sale agreement is subject to the approv of both compani board and is expect to be complet by may 1.as part of the transaction, avon will keep a minor interest in foster intraven therapi line. 
 compaq comput corp. cut price on it midlevel comput by 10%, cite a "substanti increase" in manufactur capac and a desir to maintain the model competit position.th compani cut price on it line of comput built around the intel corp. 80286 microchip, now the mainstay of medium-pr machin compat with intern busi machin corp. computers. 
 the agenc ultim could forc a recal of the cars.whatev the case, the question rais about the h-bodi car aren't good news for gm, which alreadi is suffer from sluggish sale of it broader line of vehicles. 
 mccormick & co., a maker of spices, flavor and other food products, said it agre in principl to acquir the spice island line of spices, herb and vinegar from specialti brand inc., a subsidiari of unit biscuit plc. 
 campbel soup co. said it agre in principl to acquir the mari line of refriger salad dressings, the ripe oliv busi and an oliv process plant in spain from the specialti brand inc. unit of unit biscuit plc. 
 as previous reported, appl is expect to use the same forum to announc tomorrow a formal agreement with digit equip corp. for joint develop of product that link comput made by the two companies.appl new laserwrit ii famili of printers, which will replac it previous line of laser printers, will be price from $2,799 to $6,599. 
 mr. blumenth said initi result have been encourag for product design to win new customers.th a1, the low end of a strateg line of midrang computers, sold faster than unisi could produc them in the fourth quarter, he said. 
 most were eventu sold.in july, mr. kelli took beatric non-food and specialti line public as e-ii.american brand line of cigarette, liquor and other consum brand fit mr. kelli expans strategy. 
 west point-pepperel inc., west point, ga., post a 4.7% rise in fiscal first-quart profit from continu operations.a 21% to 24% jump in sale of textil wasn't match by the compani apparel lines. 
 b.a.t, a tobacco, retail and financi servic compani with interest rang from kool cigarett to sak fifth avenu depart stores, said it target farmer last summer as a vehicl for it long-expect expans into the u.s. financi servic industry.in recent years, b.a.t has been diversifi into faster-grow busi such as insur and mortgag lend and away from it slower-grow tobacco lines. 
 revenu rose 16% to $20.7 million from $17.8 million.th san diego-bas distributor of women sportswear said the loss result from loss of $580,000 from the sale of market secur follow black monday, as well as develop cost for new private-label lines. 
 but bill for that account are understood to be smaller than those origin project for the revlon account.separately, advertis agenc execut confirm that hill, holiday, connors, cosmopulo inc. has been select to develop advertis for revlon new clean & clear haircar product line. 
 godfath has introduc a less expensive, thin-crust pie use in it two-for-on specials.it develop the economi line becaus "we didn't want to cannib our premium-product sales," mr. henderson says. 
 burnt by early-1980 problem of excess capacity, a stagnant market and poor profit margins, chemic manufactur shed plant and product drastic until about two year ago, when the restructur began to show modest profits.now compani have enter a hold pattern -- cautious find way to increas output with minor adjustments, expand specialti line where they have littl competition, and begin to diversifi into relat products. 
 minstar said it will concentr on boat manufactur through it 82% ownership of genmar industri inc.minstar sport line includ ben hogan golf clubs, head tenni and ski equipment, and swim gear. 
 whirlpool corp. said it will discontinu it whirlpool brand line of floor-car product by the second quarter of 1988. 
 whirlpool corp. said it will discontinu it whirlpool brand line of floor-car product by the second quarter of 1988.the benton harbor, mich.-bas maker of major home applianc said although the floor-car busi is still attractive, the "premium niche" that it brand line target has becom increas competit and less profit sinc it entri into the market in 1985. 
 maytag acquir the plant in 1986 at the time of it acquisit of magic chef co., admir former parent.maytag said the first phase of the galesburg project, begun last year, is schedul for complet next year and will enabl it to produc it first line of refriger and freezer bear the maytag name. 
 "two or three year ago, that was unheard of."h said the declin also is due in part to fiercer competit from other japanes and korean auto maker that introduc new car line in 1987. 
 bayer also declin comment.ici, which has the stuart line, includ mylanta, say it "wouldn't foreclos on ani interest in expand it pharmaceut group." 
 in 1985, the compani shed a number of it non-food businesses.it spun off it toy busi to creat kenner parker toy inc. and it izod and ship 'n shore fashion line and monet jewelri unit into crystal brand inc. 
 the divis make comput storag tape for commerci customers.th compani said the plan sale will permit it to concentr on it more lucrat militari line of comput products. 
 "but our were up 50% in decemb over last year, and we think after-christma sale look strong too."helen of troy chief busi stem from be north american license for the vidal sassoon trademark on it line of applianc and accessories. 
 analyst have specul that bell & howel might sell it mail-handl equip busi or it intern oper after the merger is finalized.a spokesman for bell & howell, a publish and inform servic compani base in skokie, ill., wouldn't say which line might be sold. 
 nation medical, a close held concern, provid kidney dialysi product and services.grac said it rais it stake as part of a strategi to build a medic technolog busi within grace to complement certain exist specialty-chem lines. 
 american home, which is much larger than robins, would probabl have absorb robin completely, accord to analysts.ror said in it most recent bid last week that it would sell robin prize consum drug line after a merger. 
 ncr corp. unveil two model of it tower line of midrang comput and introduc advanc network softwar to allow the tower famili to oper as a central hub in a network of computers. 
 mr. achenbaum has count among his client some of the most visibl blue-chip advertis in the country, includ nissan, toyota, seagram and backer spielvogel client hyundai and j.p. morgan.at backer spielvogel, he will work with client and potenti client on market strategies; asid from agenc compens issues, he help nissan, for example, come up with it posit and price for it new infin line. 
 in detroit, a chrysler corp. offici said the compani current has no rear-seat lap and shoulder belt in it light trucks, but plan to begin phase them in by the end of the 1990 model year.h said chrysler fulli expect to have them instal across it light-truck line by the sept. 1, 1991, deadline. 
 the addit technology, personnel train and promot effort can be expensive.chem bank spent more than $50 million to introduc it chemplus line, sever packag aim at differ segments, in 1986, accord to thoma jacob, senior vice presid of marketing. 
 reed intern plc said that net incom for the six month end oct. 1 slip 5% to #89.7 million ($141.9 million), or 16 penc a share, from #94.8 million ($149.9 million), or 17.3 penc a share.th british paper, packag and publish concern, said profit from continu line fell 10% to #118 million from #130.6 million. 
 dell comput corp. said it cut price on sever of it person comput line by 5% to 17%. 
 "it quit a bombshell," said one, ad that the offer could spark a period of industri consolidation.th two compani would appear to be a logic fit becaus of their complementari lines, and analyst describ the offer, repres a 36% premium over nekoosa market price, as fair. 
 in new york stock exchang composit trade friday, aetna close at $60, down 50 cents.in the latest quarter, aetna had a $23 million loss on it auto/homeown line, compar with earn of $33 million last year. 
 ultim expect the 3 1/2-year agreement to generat $100 million in sales, but it wouldn't estim profit.und term of the pact, ultimate, a computer-system concern, will market the full line of hp 9000 seri 800 multipleus minicomputers. 
 milton roy recent fend off unsolicit overtur from thermo electron corp., a waltham, mass., maker of biomed products.milton roy disclos in may that it was approach for a possibl acquisit by thermo electron, which agre to purchas milton roy liquid-chromatographi line for $22 million in february. 
 then procter & gambl co. agre to buy noxel corp. for $1.3 billion.that acquisition, to be complet by year end, will includ the cover girl and clarion makeup lines, make p&g the top market of cosmet in mass-market outlets. 
 as the trend continues, demand for mass-market item that are high qualiti but onli mid-pric -- particular skin-car product -- is expect to increase.thi fall, for example, l'oreal group, ordinarili a high-end line, roll out a drug-stor line of skin-car product call plenitude, which retail for $5 to $15. 
 accessori not onli sell faster than whole bikes, they also offer profit margin near doubl the 25% to 30% or so on sale of complet cycles.to get a piec of the business, nike inc., beaverton, ore., introduc a line of mountain-bik shoes. 
 general motor corp. chevrolet divis said it is offer $750 cash incent on all 1990 model of it full-siz blazer and suburban truck lines. 
 margeotes, whose client includ godiva and maccabe beer, has had a string of new busi wins.it recent pick up the ad account for haagen-dazs, newsday and for a number of jewelri line from crystal brands. 
 sale rose 8% to $785.1 million from $725.6 million.avon said sale in the direct-sel divis drop 2% as sale of new products, especi gift and jewelri lines, were below expectations. 
 "it the fourth quarter and what might linger beyond that."last month, avon execut indic that the compani would experi a $75 million to $90 million revenu shortag due to weak in it gift and decor lines. 
 kellogg current share is believ to be slight under 40% while general mill share is about 27%.led by it oat-bas cheerio line, general mill has gain an estim 2% share so far this year, most at the expens of kellogg. 
 kellogg is so anxious to turn around corn flake sale that it soon will begin sell box for as littl as 99 cents, trade sourc say."cheerio and honey nut cheerio have eaten away sale normal go to kellogg corn-bas line simpli becaus they are made of oats," say merril lynch food analyst william maguire. 
 bausch & lomb inc. said it plan to introduc next year a new line of sunglass contain melanin, the pigment that protect against damag from ultraviolet rays. 
 cray research inc. forecast that 1990 will be a no-growth year for it supercomput line. 
 adolph coor co. said it coor brew co. unit will test market a new line of bottl water in the west begin earli next year. 
 honda say the five-cylind engin provid a compromis between the fuel-economi of a four-cylinder, and the power of a v-6.it is rumor to be bound for a new model in the luxuri acura line in the u.s., but honda offici wouldn't comment. 
 but those dollar at risk pale in comparison to the invest requir to make and ship spring good to campeau stores."th few million dollar i could lose today is noth against what i could lose on the spring line," say mr. levy, who estim that campeau store will sell $25 million worth of his cloth this year. 
 the hottest rivalri in the comput industri intensifi sharpli yesterday as digit equip corp. announc it first line of mainfram computers, target intern busi machin corp. largest market. 
 the hottest rivalri in the comput industri intensifi sharpli yesterday as digit equip corp. announc it first line of mainfram computers, target intern busi machin corp. largest market.ibm fire back with new mainfram of it own, extend the long-domin 3090 line with a 7% to 14% power boost. 
 in addit to commerci markets, digit new line target the low end of the engin and scientif supercomput market, when it packag with an option supercharger, known as a vector processor.digit push into mainfram come at a time when it mainstay minicomput line is under grow pressur from smaller person comput and workstat that oper on standard oper system rather than on the proprietari system that older minicomput use. 
 "we have a good strong backlog for the fourth quarter even without" the system that were announc yesterday.but the 3090 line is near five year old -- which is get up there in mainfram year -- and it growth is expect to slow in 1990. 
 barri bryant, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc., said tandi also has suffer from letharg sale of it comput aim at the home and small-offic market, which are less-advanc and cheaper than comput aim at the corpor market.tandi has ad sever new product to that line, includ a laptop comput price around $1,000, and is focus it advertis on the easy-to-us softwar that is packag with it machines. 
 he say it import for a new make to be as distinct as possibl while still retain link to the parent compani qualiti image.h applaud toyota and nissan motor co. for creat separ divis for their new luxuri models, rather than simpli ad more namepl to their standard car lines. 
 as a senior vice president, he has head the compani design lingeri division, oscar de la renta, sinc it incept in 1988.to maintain exclus of that design line, it isn't label with the maidenform name. 
 gm interest in jaguar reflect a desir to help diversifi the u.s. compani product in the grow luxury-car segment of the market.it opel line has a solid imag and a recent string of high success new models, but it lack jaguar cachet. 
 winnebago was hit especi hard in the latest downturn becaus unit sale in it bread-and-butt motor home busi tumbl 25% industrywid in august, and 10.4% in the first eight month of the year.th compani said it also suffer in the quarter from incent programs, loss from discontinu a motor home line and cost of develop a new commerci vehicle, among other things. 
 mca inc. said it toy-mak unit agre to buy buddi l corp., produc of a line of toy vehicl and preschool products. 
 design sandra garratt file for chapter 7 bankruptci code protection, say that her cash flow had been cut off.th designer, whose line of modular, one-size-fits-al cloth has spawn a host of clones, has been in a disput with her latest licensee, jerel inc. for sever months. 
 the design attorney, molli bartholow, said that ms. garratt was forc to start bankruptcy-law proceed becaus jerel began withhold her royalti payment last month.jerel paid ms. garratt royalti for the line known as multipl by sandra garratt, which are sold primarili through depart stores.ms. garratt su the dalla apparel maker earlier this year, charg that jerel develop and market cloth line fashion after her designs, in violat of their contract. 
 when fulli operational, the guadalajara factori will employ about 1,500 worker and have annual oper expens of $5 million to $6 million.an at&t repres said that the guadalajara factori will make a full line of answer machines. 
 kurzweil, waltham, mass., make digit electron keyboard instrument use by profession record musicians.it recent introduc a line for the home market. 
 he said the toy compani "prospect for a strong fourth quarter" are also good.mattel attribut the jump in quarter net to strong world-wid sale of it barbi doll, hot wheel cars, disney toy and other well-known toy lines. 
 "they'v got a lot of differ ball in the air at the same time," observ jim poyner, a comput secur analyst with dallas-bas william k. woodruff & co. mr. dell, meanwhile, conced the compani was "definit too optimistic" in it expectations.product delays, however, have left dell buffet by harsher competit in it bread-and-butt line of desktop computers, as powerhous competitor compaq comput corp. and intern busi machin corp. price their pcs more aggressively. 
 sluggish sale of the beretta and corsica spur gm to offer $800 rebat on those cars.th corsica and beretta make up the highest-volum car line at chevrolet, but sale of the car are off 9.6% for the year, and fell a steep 34.2% earli this month. 
 he blame imports.but just down seventh avenue, where about 75% of u.s. fur garment are made, larri rosen has acquir two retail outlets, broaden his fur-mak line and expand into leather. 
 inspir by imports, mr. rosen now make fur muffs, hat and flings.thi year he produc a men line and offer dy fur in red, cherri red, violet, royal blue and forest green. 
 "it the miss link" in olivetti product line between small person comput and higher-pr minicomputers, the olivetti spokesman said.h ad that olivetti will continu make it lsx minicomput line. 
 a spokesman also said margin for the compani servic busi narrow somewhat becaus of heavi invest made in that sector.th lack of a strong product at the high end of digit line was a signific drag on sales. 
 he ad gross margin and oper profit "erod quit dramatically" from the prior quarter, along with sale of exist softwar product line like multim and framework."th success of a new product in the databas line is needed. 
 general motor corp. chevrolet division, react to slow sales, said it will offer $800 rebat on it 1990 beretta, the two-door version of it core compact-car line. 
 sluggish sale of the beretta, and it four-door sister car, the corsica, prompt gm to idl the two plant that build the automobil for a total of three week this month.th corsica and beretta make up the highest-volum car line at chevrolet, but sale of the vehicl are off 9.6% for the year, and fell a steep 34% dure earli october. 
 new customers, the sourc of higher commiss for salespeopl and the key to wang long-term viability, are even tougher.rick lynch, a former top salesman in wang boston office, refer to wang mainstay comput line, says: "you can't sell a vs to a new customer." 
 renault and daf truck nv announc a preliminari agreement to joint manufactur a line of truck in britain and france. 
 digit equip corp. is plan a big coming-out parti on tuesday for it first line of mainfram computers. 
 the heighten competit will hit ibm at a difficult time.th comput giant current mainfram line, which has sold well and has huge profit margins, is start to show it age. 
 amdahl corp., back by japan fujitsu ltd., has a grow share of the market with it low-priced, ibm-compat machines.and nation advanc systems, a joint ventur of japan hitachi ltd. and general motor corp. electron data systems, is expect to unveil a line of power ibm-compat mainfram later this year. 
 aim at commerci photographers, the film can be use in veri low light without sacrif quality, say donald franz of photofinish newsletter.also tri to snare a portion of the $2 billion-a-year industri is agfa corp., a unit of bayer ag. agfa recent sign olymp gold medalist florenc griffith-joyn to endors a new line of black-and-whit paper that gear to consum and will compet direct with kodak papers. 
 automat call processor will provid that system for virtual ani telephone, mr. pierc said, not just phone produc by elcotel.th compani will also be produc a new line of conveni telephones, which don't accept coins, for use in hotel lobbies, offic lobbies, hospit loung and similar settings. 
 maxtor said it result were boost by $2 million in payment receiv from a supplier, for a certain line of product that maxtor isn't go to sell anymore.maxtor said effect from discontinu the line may have a posit effect on futur earn and revenue. 
  new account: procter & gambl co., cincinnati, award the ad account for it line of profession crisco veget shorten and oil product to northlich, stolley, lawarre, cincinnati. 
 soni corp. won a pretrial order block u.s. sale of justin product inc. "mi own" line of portabl audio player for children. 
 soni corp. won a pretrial order block u.s. sale of justin product inc. "mi own" line of portabl audio player for children.judg john e. sprizzo issu the order in manhattan feder court, where soni has accus the tini compani of illeg knock off the "mi first sony" line. 
 the disk drive will doubtless sell well when they final becom available.but the as/400, ibm high success minicomput line, is lose it momentum, and some analyst said sale could even declin in the fourth quarter. 
 the latest evid of that is the decis to idl the fairfax, kan., plant that make the grand prix less than three week into the new model year.th grand prix is one of gm newest line of cars, the so-cal gm-10 midsiz cars. 
 in the year-earli period, hasbro earn $18.1 million, or 31 cent a share, on $368.4 million in revenue.th pawtucket, r.i., manufactur is count on record breakers, a new line of high-perform model race car now be rush to market. 
 mattel inc., base in hawthorne, calif., is expect to report more bullish number than it did a year ago.help by boom sale in it barbi doll line, hot wheel race car and disney toy for preschoolers, mattel per-shar earn should jump by better than 50% to about 70 cents, estim mr. mcgowan. 
 at pittsburgh asp inc., which introduc it first anti-virus softwar in 1985, "we ship out 80 copi (at $35 each) last week," say founder fred cohen, who present the first comput virus to the research communiti in 1983.after ad certus, a $189 anti-virus comput program, to it line of system manag softwar in earli 1988, foundat ware inc., cleveland, has quadrupl sale everi quarter, say founder peter tippett. 
 other undoubt will follow, but most analyst believ compaq has at least a six-month lead on the competition.toshiba line of portables, for example, featur the t-1000, which is in the same weight class but is much slower and has less memory, and the t-1600, which also use a 286 microprocessor, but which weigh almost twice as much and is three time the size. 
 repli a justin salesman: "exactly."th justin merchandis carri wholesal price some 40% below those of soni corp. of japan "mi first sony" line. 
 now sony, whose innovative, premium-pr product are among the most admir in consum electronics, is bitter complain about a littl u.s. firm with a cheap look-alik produc in china."th gist of this is that justin knock off the soni line and soni want to stop it," say lewi h. eslinger, soni attorney, who previous guard rubik cube. (soni itself declin to comment.) if soni wins, mr. esling says, it littl rival will have to tri to sell the product overseas. 
 mr. kay deni the suit charg and say his onli mistak was take on soni in the marketplace."i made a similar line and i produc it cheaper," he says. 
 the compani has grown -- to about 40 employees, from four initially, mr. kay says.justin has been profit sinc 1986, add the official, who share his offic with numer teddi bears, all sampl from his line of plush toys. 
 justin has been profit sinc 1986, add the official, who share his offic with numer teddi bears, all sampl from his line of plush toys.lik mani others, mr. kay took notic in 1987 when sony, in a classic exampl of market segmentation, chang the plastic skin and button on the famous walkman line of portabl audio equip and creat the my first soni line for children.th bright color new product look more like toy than the adult models. (in court papers, soni say it has spent more than $3 million to promot the line, with result sale of over a million units.) 
 but intel later succumb to the stock market plunge, close at $31.75, down $2.125.in august, intel warn that third-quart earn might be "flat to down" from the previous period becaus of slow sale growth of it 80386 microprocessor, start-up cost associ with a line of comput and cost of prepar for mass shipment of the compani new 80486 chip in the current quarter. 
 intern paper co. third-quart net incom rose 6.5%, reflect "solid performances" by pulp and paper busi and contribut from specialti line and acquisitions. 
 bull hn, 69%-own by group bull, the big french comput maker, said the new product line includ the dpx/2, base on the industri standard unix oper system, and the dps 6000, base on a proprietari design.th 6000 signific extend bull exist dps line, which has sold 60,000 unit world-wide. 
 he fill one of two vacanc creat last year when two of the compani co-founders, thoma ong, execut vice president, finance, and mason tarkeshian, execut vice president, operations, resigned.cm make and distribut a broad line of enhanc product for person computers. 
 xylog inc., burlington, mass., said it reach an agreement under which unisi corp. will buy as much as $50 million of it comput system over the next five years.xylog said unisi will be buy it new annex ii termin servers, a line it acquir from encor comput corp. last december. 
 the fiberworld product are base on a new set of intern standard for fiber-opt telecommun equip put in place last year.northern telecom is the first compani to launch a complet line of switch and transmiss product base on the new standards, known as synchron optic networking, or sonet. 
 northern telecom say it product will roll out over 18 month begin earli next year and will begin contribut to revenu and earn by earli 1991.burt wolder, a spokesman for american telephon & telegraph co., said his compani is "develop a full line of sonet product and expect to announc them very, veri soon." 
 renault lack an up-market label and an intern presence.volvo lack a full line of auto product and a signific presenc in the ec. 
 with the industri on the brink of sweep change, volvo may be feel vulner and readi to seek a partner to share product-develop cost and make it more of an an ec insider."a volvo-renault combin would creat a full line of auto product under one umbrella with total product of about two million unit a year, or about 20% of the european market, analyst say. 
 nevertheless, wcrs might consid bddp as a backup if it talk with eurocom fall through, some industri execut suggested.wcr initi announc last month that it was in talk to sell a portion of it ad business; it hope to larg remov itself from the agenc busi in order to concentr on it more profit line, media-buying. 
 general housewar corp. agre to sell most of it leys cookwar line and a relat manufactur plant in wisconsin to vollrath co., sheboygan, wis. 
 and japan big dai-ichi kangyo bank recent agre to invest as much as $100 million into a clayton & dubili buy-out fund.martin h. dubilier, chairman and chief execut officer, said he valu the new subsidiari and it big a line of auto part becaus of it wide distribut network. 
 now, encourag by some recent growth, the toiletri compani are polish their market strategies, and the busi is begin to show sign of life.even gillett co., which has tradit concentr on mainstream products, say it plan a "more upscale" line of men toiletries, probabl for sale through it tradit outlets, such as drugstores. 
 it a lesson that hasn't escap gruen well-heel competition.aramis, which roll out it lab seri line of unscent men groom product three year ago, focus on skin problem caus by shaving, such as razor burn. 
 but mention the word wrinkl and they'r like to flee.to eas custom embarrassment, compani are begin to establish separ locat for their men lines. 
 in it five-year effort, hershey has learn that transform a tradit dish like pasta isn't easy.th compani experi in develop it perfect line illustr the difficulti inher in creat a new food item. 
 last year, chrysler put about 60% of that budget into tv, and about 40% in magazin and newspapers.major auto makers, both domest and foreign, have usual support their automobil line with massiv advertis budget place larg in television.th shift by chrysler repres the largest proport of an ad budget dedic to print by a car line of a major u.s. auto manufactur in at least two decades, accord to jim guthrie, execut vice presid of market develop for the magazin publish of america, an industri group. 
 auto maker are the largest categori of advertis in magazines, spend $800 million in 1988, an increas of 17% from 1987.the shift in spend is part of a stepped-up campaign by chrysler to promot it high-end chrysler brand, which includ the imperial, new yorker, salon, lebaron, and town & countri lines. 
 nissan execut will unveil their spend plan for the 1990 model year at a car dealer show later this month.however, it clear nissan is use magazin heavily, as well as tv, to introduc it new infin line of luxuri cars. 
 other auto maker have show a decid prefer for tv.for example, mr. vitulli said chrysler corp. lower-pr plymouth auto line will spend 10% of it media budget on print and 90% on broadcast tv and cable. 
 "we are look to target nich -- young women, older peopl and others," he said."we'l use core public for the entir brand, along with magazin meant for specif lines." 
 now the battl is head in the opposit direction.bayerisch motoren werk ag yesterday said it freez or cut price on it entir u.s. 1990 model line. 
 it also froze the price of the 190e 2.6 with automat transmiss at $32,500, despit ad electr adjust front seats, which were a $950 option on the 1989 model.pric on the remaind of mercedes-benz u.s. line now will rang from $39,950 for the 300e 2.6 with automat transmiss to $83,500 for the 500sl two-seat convertible, which is new this year. 
 but previously, it had emphas that it wouldn't need to sell them.mr. boksen say he expect to see more asset sales-of hbj insur unit and perhap of some of it publish line -- even if publish rebounds. 
 still, unisi has dug itself a deep hole and will have to work hard mere to regain it posit of a year ago.despit pent-up demand for a new line of mainframes, it has general been lose ground in the mainfram and minicomput markets. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it is offer a holiday promot involv person comput at the low end and in the middl of it ps/2 line. 
 but while businessmen general welcom this year unexpect econom surge, they recogn that the underground economi is a double-edg sword.execut of the food unit of giant grupo alfa are elat about this year 100% sale increas in the compani most inexpens line of cold meats, whose biggest buyer are underground mom-and-pop stores. 
 term of the agreement weren't disclosed.th license are modern shirt intern and modern shirt industri ltd. and kangaroo u.s.a. inc. jeep offici said the shirt compani will produc and distribut a line of jeep sportswear to be retail through depart stores, while kangaroo will produc and distribut jeep athlet and casual shoe that will be sold through independ shoe stores. 
 although ibm is expect to introduc slight faster version of it mainfram this year, the machin will be five year old next year -- long in the tooth by mainfram standard -- and competitor are expect to bring out new products.ibm as/400 line, which has done spectacular well in the first 15 month of it life, is see growth slow. 
 the ibm spokesman confirm that ibm had made the retir offer to mani of the 23,000 employe at four manufactur sites.they are in manassas, va., and owego, n.y., where ibm make special equip for defens contracts; in endicott, n.y., where it make the 9370 minicomput line; and in lexington, ky., where it produc typewrit and printers. 
 and that should be much less of a problem next year when the comparison becom easier.but ibm also cite a delay in the introduct of a new line of high-end disk drives, the latest in a seri of manufactur and develop glitch this year that analyst have said could be link to the loss of skill employe in these early-retir programs. 
 the car isn't all-american, however: mazda, of which ford own 25%, did much of the engin on the vehicle.th most wide public luxuri car of the new model year are clear nissan infin line, which goe on sale nov. 8, and toyota lexus cars, which have been avail sinc august. 
  four-wheel drive mercedes-benz add four-wheel-dr car to it u.s. line for the first time with the 300e 4matic sedan and 300te 4matic station wagon. 
 the layoff come as cray phase out product of it labor-intens x-mp line-hand-wir machin -- in favor of a model that, becaus of factori automation, higher-dens chip and other advances, can be made in one-third the time.moreover, where a central process unit in the old model had 30,000 parts, those in the new y-mp line have 310. 
 a sear spokesman declin to comment.vermont is a major supplier of part for sear line of tools. 
 dan benton, an analyst at goldman, sach & co., said he expect to cut his estim to $9 a share for the year, well below the ibm range.th wild card in all this is the disk-driv line, whose problem could be clear up soon or could persist for months. 
 ibm, which get some $6 billion of it $60 billion of revenu from such drives, is expect to decid soon on how to proceed.ibm need to get the drive out soon becaus competitor have caught up with ibm current line, and ibm must onc again leapfrog them if it is to escap the price war that has developed. 
 europa eyewear corp. sell 22-karat gold frame for around $250, "good for clinch that wall street deal."custom want "differ glass for boat than for skiing," say a market for allegra inc. ziari line of sunglasses. 
 in addition, the compani said it sale and servic personnel will target new market for the system.debug the softwar for the two-year old i/a seri was "far more complex than . . . with our earlier lines," but "is now in place and functioning." 
 but he said he interced with japanes ministri and won "a liber interpret of the rules."mr. butler said he agre to the purchas becaus it would give avx access to a broad line of part that it could sell in europe, where avx current generat 25% of it $408 million of annual sales.mr. butler also cite kyocera technology; while avx and kyocera both make capacitors, kyocera also make a broad line of electronics, includ printer heads, liquid crystal display and person computers. 
 the quarter earn were better than the $1.15 a share that mr. berko had projected, and the analyst said he is now like to increas his full-year earn estim of $3.20 a share.in addit to sever posit devlop at the compani in recent weeks, includ an agreement with singer michael jackson to design and market a line of fashion sneaker and other apparel, analyst have attribut at least a part of the recent stock increas to arbitrag cover their short positions. 
 mr. urbanski believ michelin will use it own name as well as the goodrich t/a brand, popular among sporti car enthusiasts, to tri to increas market share at chrysler.th goodrich t/a line is alreadi origin equip on some chrysler jeep products. 
 the fund close at 16 1/4 on 1.2 million shares.intern busi machines, which introduc three new comput model for small busi and a number of enhanc to it personal-comput line, ad 1 1/4 to 117 1/2. 
 toyota motor corp., in an aggress bid to boost u.s. market share, is rais 1990 base price on it most popular car line by 2.5% or less from 1989 levels. 
 execut here also said that at&t is consid manufactur it own facsimil machin and could someday make it own person computers.at&t recent agre to have a new line of person comput made by intel corp. 
 earlier this spring, the compani launch cholesterol-fre mayonnais and miracl whip.last week, it introduc sealtest free, which it bill as the first nation brand of "nonfat" ice cream and began test a line of fat-fre salad dressings. 
 ---toyota is rais price on it most popular car line for 1990 by 2.5% or less in an aggress attempt to increas it u.s. market share. --- 
 general motor corp. pontiac divis said it plan to boost it total vehicl sale by about 6% in the 1990 model year, main becaus of sale of a new plastic-bodi minivan.but pontiac offici also conced that they expect sale of their primari midsiz car line, the pontiac grand prix, won't be enough to assur that the gm plant exclus dedic to the model will work at full capac in the 1990 model year. 
 but pontiac offici also conced that they expect sale of their primari midsiz car line, the pontiac grand prix, won't be enough to assur that the gm plant exclus dedic to the model will work at full capac in the 1990 model year.pontiac modest expect for the grand prix, one of four line gm design as part of it $5 billion gm-10 midsiz car program, is anoth sign that despit the recent announc that the compani will indefinit idl a plant in lakewood, ga., gm has a long way to go to solv it cost overcapac problem. 
 sale of the two-year-old grand prix coupe, however, will fall to 105,000 vehicl in 1990 from about 118,000 car in the 1989 model year that end sept. 30, pontiac offici predicted.but the modern fairfax, kan., plant that build the grand prix line is capabl of produc more than 250,000 car a year. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it has ask computer-accessori maker to produc adaptor card for it ps/2 line of comput that will enabl them to transfer data two to four time faster than they current do. 
 intern busi machin corp. said it has ask computer-accessori maker to produc adaptor card for it ps/2 line of comput that will enabl them to transfer data two to four time faster than they current do.ibm said the card will unlock capabl alreadi built into it ps/2 line, which featur the so-cal micro channel data pathway. 
 it was the agenc first u.s. client.it cover girl line, which linta suggest and help develop, is now the largest-sel cosmet line in the country. 
 if procter must choos anoth agenc for noxel -- either becaus it pull the account or unilev pressur linta into resign the account -- it will find it choic extrem limited, as most major agenc not work for procter are work for it competitors.noxel use a second major agency, chicago-bas leo burnett, for it clarion line; burnett is alreadi a procter agenc and could be consid for futur assignments. 
 noxel use a second major agency, chicago-bas leo burnett, for it clarion line; burnett is alreadi a procter agenc and could be consid for futur assignments.meanwhile, industri execut alreadi have begun specul that linta might take on anoth cosmet line, such as maybelline, a unit of schering-plough. 
 last fall, the cosmet maker launch a market initi dub "the nines," design to boost it visibl in toni depart stores.ov the years, revlon had acquir prestig cosmet line such as charl of the ritz and princess marcella borghese, but had no comprehens market strategi for them.und the nine program, the compani gather all nine of it upscal cosmet line -- encompass some 3,000 item -- at a singl cosmet counter with a special nine banner. 
 competitor say revlon sale staff was unabl to master the vast array of product they were expect to push.and the attempt to sell custom more than one cosmet line per visit undermin effort to build brand loyalty."consum buy differ piec from differ lines," said a market execut at one competitor. 
 ad to revlon difficulties, the compani claim that 200 retail nationwid grew impati with the pace of the rollout and implement their own version of the nines.thes independent-mind retail lump togeth all of revlon lines, without wait for market support from headquart or proper train for their sale help. 
 sale rose 27% to $199 million from $157.2 million.th compani said it salon select line was one of the fastest grow brand in the industri in the quarter. 
 n.v. philip and it partner have grant a japanes firm exclus right to promot and market equip for supplier of a new line of prerecord audio/visu compact-disk product in asia. 
 joseph kozloff, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert, lower his estim to $8.30 a share from $8.50, but left 1991 at $9.75.along with noxema and cover girl, noxel give p&g the line of clarion cosmetics, lestoil cleaner and wick fowler two alarm chili, a season for chili. 
 union carbid corp. said it is expand it line of substitut for chlorofluorocarbon use in make foam cushioning. 
 but this is it first ventur into the $1.5 billion mass market cosmet business.noxel cover girl and clarion line have a combin 25.4% share, follow by maybelline, with 17.7% and revlon, with 13.9%. 
 yesterday, ibm stock rose 12.5 cent to close at $116.125 a share, while baxter intern common close unchang at $22.25, both in new york stock exchang composit trading.separately, ibm announc that it had author the open of 41 new dealership that will sell it ps/2 person comput line, mark the end of a moratorium it declar four year ago. 
 -- set up a fur-product factori as earli as next year.-- diversifi into other line of soviet business, includ trade in textiles, syring and condoms. 
 heredity, junk food and a couch-potato environ have combin to produc a generat of overweight youth.but at last partner think the number still aren't larg enough to persuad tradit apparel firm to creat a line of overs cloth stock in depart store and specialti outlets. 
 buoy by a $16,000 invest from ms. runyon husband, they measur dozen of overweight children, inquir about like and dislikes, and produc their own size scheme, which rang from 23-inch to 50-inch waist and weight from 55 pound to 300 pounds.th entrepreneur becam convinc they were on the right track at an august 1986 display in a church basement: 70 parent of overweight children show up to view at last line, which consist of some fabric swatch stuck on a bulletin board and a hand of trouser samples. 
 "it someth you should in good conscienc do," he added.gm alreadi has made front-seat headrest or high-back seat standard equip on eight of it 12 truck lines. 
 the greet card compani attribut it improv perform to last year cost-sav measures, includ the sale or close of sever subsidiaries.th compani also said it "couples" card line, introduc in july, had brisk sales. 
 at the office-furnitur factory, an autom assembl line dunk deskleg into an electropl bath.at the fashion warehouse, a manag check design for the kibbutz-mad line of women apparel. 
 the 1990 accord lx will start at $14,895, up 5% from the year-earli price of $14,180.at the top of the accord line, honda essenti consolid two model into one. 
 in 1985, p&g post it first annual earn declin sinc 1952 -- a 29% drop to $635 million.mainstay lines, such as toothpast and diapers, were get hammer by the competition: crest market share alon fell to 30.5% in 1985 from 40% in 1977; pamper share drop around 40 point to 33% over rough the same time. 
 yet, in the interven years, p&g has bold chang how and where it doe business.determin to take advantag of grow market overseas, the compani turn around it earli debacl in japan, where it diaper and deterg line in particular were faltering. 
 p&g su the cooki maker for patent infring and recent won a $125 million settlement from nabisco, keebler and frito-lay.but while copycat competitor certain hurt, mr. tucker, the former p&g manager, also say the compani was too slow develop a full line of cookies, with a varieti of flavors. 
 "if the disappoint is deep enough anoth hostil offer may be . . . forthcoming."mr. preston, respond to this criticism, said through a spokesman, "there was no way in may to forecast that the gift and jewelri line would underperform in the fourth quarter. 
 that particular startl when one consid that most cook were will to devot 30 minut to meal prepar a scant 10 year ago and about an hour in the earli 70s.accordingly, campbel soup is test a microwav soup line for all the peopl who find it too tax to open a can and pour the content into a pot. 
 the japanes threat to the european is onli get worse.last month toyota motor corp. launch it luxuri lexus line in the u.s., and in novemb nissan motor co. is unveil it infin models. 
 the worst gas guzzler in the epa annual rate isn't for sale in the u.s. -- chrysler italian import two-seat italian-mad lamborghini countach.a 1990 model of the $155,000 sport car was test by the epa and got 6 mpg in citi drive and 10 mpg on the highway, but the manufactur say a replac line will be introduc in the u.s. this year. 
 the hawthorne, calif., toy maker sale for the quarter end juli 1 were $272.3 million, up 31% from last year $207.1 million.john w. amerman, chairman and chief execut officer, said retail and consum demand has remain "veri strong" for it core brand as well as a line of licens disney infant and preschool toys. 
 ---boe profit jump 20% in the quarter, but the aircraft maker said it still face major challeng and risk in commerci and militari lines. 
 despit the stock market negat expectations, it appear that differ segment of the personal-comput industri are experienc sharpli differ growth trends.generally, demand is strong for high-perform hardware, such as appl macintosh, compaq 386 machin and intern busi machin corp. ps/2 line of computers. 
 the unit, base in fort washington, pa., has three manufactur plant and about 1,100 employees.ralston, base in st. louis, said beechnut fit into it array of other food lines, includ such cereal for children as cooki crisp. 
 pepsico wine & spirit intern said it plan to introduc priviet, a premium vodka from russia, in the u.s. in october.priviet, whose ad pitch will be "serious vodka you don't have to take too seriously," will be price around $10 a bottle, compar with the $13 general charg for pepsico stolichnaya line of russian vodkas. 
 the compani announc that r.k. patel, one of par founders, took a voluntari leav of absenc as senior vice presid and director, and that jeffrey m. levine, execut vice president, and barri s. geller, vice president, regulatori affairs, took voluntari leav of absenc from the board.par, which had fiscal 1988 sale of $99.6 million from a line of sever hundr products, said it didn't believ there were ani advers health or safeti implic involved. 
 pier 1 import inc., fort worth, texas, said net incom was flat at $7.3 million in it second quarter end aug. 26.the specialti retail said in juli that it expect the result to be flat becaus of discount in some lines, particular cotton apparel. 
 chrysler was the loser among the big three with auto sale down 18.5% to 24,419.a bright spot for the no. 3 auto maker was it truck sale -- includ the top-sel minivan and the jeep line, which rose 4.1% to 30,377. 
 ford motor co. is bet that the tradition-mind buyer of it heftiest car will accept the "aero" style that now character most of the compani model line. 
 ford is build a stamp plant at wayn and ad a second shift of worker at hermosillo.th mexican plant current build onli the tracer and will continu to build the mercuri subcompact after it get the escort line. 
 who bad?l.a. gear inc. said it has sign singer michael jackson to design and market world-wid a line of michael jackson fashion sneakers. 
 but a new comput design scrambl that strategy, and digit has fumbl for month in tri to project a coher new theme, even as it brought out a blizzard of new products.in just a year, the compani rebuilt it entir vax minicomput line. 
 but the mess in sale isn't the onli problem that slow revenu growth into singl digit in the latest quarter.in a cost gamble, digit decid last year to cancel a major comput design, leav big custom without a replac at the high end of it line. 
 like mani competitors, digit was caught off guard by the clamor for standard software.although it vax line has been enorm popular, fuel digit explos growth sinc 1985, more and more custom don't want to get hook on comput base on proprietari software. 
 and most standard softwar isn't yet suit for hard-cor commerci computing, such as on-lin transact processing.typ transaction-process tasks, in which hundr of termin interact with a database, includ airlin reservations, on-lin retail-sal track and bank teller networks, and such oper are a prime target for the vax line, especi the 9000. 
 it new line, price substanti below the vax, run on unix oper softwar with chip from mip comput system inc.at first, digit couldn't come up with a clear market theme for the two lines. 
 ibm competitor are expect to benefit from a delay of even a few months."digit is go to have more than 200 softwar packag run on it workstat by the time ibm is shipping," said marc g. schulman, an analyst with ub secur inc. abund softwar packag are critic to the success of a comput line. 
 the focus of most of the attent today is in the market for machin base on the unix softwar oper system.mr. schulman call digit decstat line "the absolut leader in price performance" in that market. 
 ford declin to specifi how much it will spend in the five years.but kenneth f. smith, ford heavy-truck oper manager, said the compani will "have modern or replac everi product in the ford heavy-truck line." 
 but kenneth f. smith, ford heavy-truck oper manager, said the compani will "have modern or replac everi product in the ford heavy-truck line."ford said it will move some product of it cargo line of medium and heavy-duti truck from brazil to ford kentucki truck plant in louisville, ky. 
 a ford spokesman said it isn't clear whether the addit of the cargo truck will requir an expans of the kentucki truck plant.ford offici said product of the cargo line is expect to begin in the fourth quarter of 1990. 
 "now it ford turn to step forward with new product to keep pace."ford mr. smith said the compani is work on a new gas engin with electron port fuel injection, an expand line of diesel engin with electron controls, and new class 8 heavy-duti truck tractors, among other projects. 
 the cell-biolog product are solut use to grow cells.hana has said that it was sell the line becaus further develop of them would have pull the compani away from it strateg focus -- cell-transpl research and develop programs. 
 as part of it direct sale restructuring, on-lin will halt direct sale of it case-pac product, which repres about 1% to 2% of sales.th compani said it also refocus it rami information-product line to includ a joint direct marketing/telemarket effort.th rami line repres about 15% of total sales. 
 in an interview, david f. parkinson, chief financi officer, said phoenix will book a restructur charg for the current quarter.h said the compani has tighten it revenue-recognit polici and will drop it effort to provid basic softwar to manufactur of comput that are base on the sparc microprocessor line from sun microsystem inc. 
 ---nissan motor is cut price on a key compact car line in a bid to boost it u.s. market share at the expens of the big three and other rivals. 
 steyr will hold 20% in the new subsidiary, while man will have manag control.th announc of the transact came after daf n.v., an anglo/dutch auto maker, said it drop it offer to take over steyr truck line after man made a higher counteroffer. 
 wang laboratori inc. unveil a new midrang minicomput line, the vs 8000 series, to replac it vs 7000 line. 
 the recal drug includ sever form of darvon, methadone, two anti-infect and an anti-inflammatori agent.lilli spokesman said the drug were most "older line products" sold either under the lilli or dista labels. 
 in composit trade yesterday on the new york stock exchange, lilli share fell 75 cent to close at $59.625.the investig by the food and drug administr did not includ lilli largest drug line such as it oral antibiotic, ceclor, or prozac, it anti-depress drug. 
 "it what everyon is tri to do."th chip also give the santa clara, calif., compani a broader line of high-end chips. 
 the dairi operations, base in johnson city, tenn., produc milk, ice cream and cottag chees in the carolinas, florida, georgia, tennessee, virginia and part of west virginia.th compani isn't discontinu ani dairi lines, mr. melsheim said. 
 the propos dividend may help save kohlberg kravi from possibl investor critic that it overpaid for beatrice.two year ago, some beatric insid boast that by sell off the compani assets, includ it line of wesson cook oil and hunt tomato products, investor would earn a pre-tax profit that could exceed $3 billion. 
 it sale are strongest in scandinavian countri and france, although it has sale offic throughout europe.th micron line primarili is use for gather data in the field. 
 the price of the cheapest 1990 stanza model will be $11,450, or $749 less than that of it less power predecessor.nissan decis is the latest in a seri of move by foreign auto maker to cut price on import car line at a time when the big three u.s. auto maker are aggress rais base price on most of their 1990 models. 
 vitro technolog bent is a legaci of adrian sada sr., an emin practic engin who remain the group chairman.once, at a product present for vitro refriger line, visitor were taken aback when the chairman roll up his sleeves, open a toolbox and repair a faulti unit. 
 one of the new model use intern busi machin corp. micro channel data bus design, mark ncr first use of the technology.separately, ncr unveil a new member of it tower 32 comput line, built around motorola inc. 68030 microprocessor. 
 the partnership, control by money manag martin zweig and former drexel market director eugen glaser, will renam the fund zweig seri trust, zweig cash fund and zweig tax-fre fund.th sale of it fund line stem from drexel decis earlier this year to shed it brokerage-offic operations. 
 honda is expect to unveil a redesign accord later this month, and dealer say they expect the car to be larger and more expens than the current compact model.th civic and crx line -- includ some of honda cheapest car -- account for about 30% of the compani total u.s. car sales. 
 the price of honda least expens model, the civic dx hatchback with a four-spe manual transmission, will rise 3.9% to $6,635 from $6,385, the spokesman said.th most expens holdov model in the civic line, the four-wheel drive wagon with automat transmission, will have a base price of $13,140, up 2.6% from $12,810 in 1989. 
 use text-search software, the product will allow analyst and m&a specialist at banks, brokerages, and compani to quick find and analyz potenti deal by compar them with past deals.th product is the sixth in lotus line of one sourc cd-base inform services. 
 duncan hine "flavor was never as good as it should'v been," say gordon tucker, a former p&g brand manag who help develop the cookies.whil he assert that p&g was hurt by competitor copi the technology, he add that p&g simpli got beat becaus nabisco "move veri fast" and introduc a full line of cookies. 
 "the bottom line here is that the fragranc busi just doesn't fit with avon door-to-door sell business," said andrew shore, an analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. "assum the fragranc busi is worth what avon paid for it, the compani is better off use the money to reduc debt.mr. shore, as well as sever other analysts, specul that avon decid to investig the possibl sale of it fragranc line follow a privat meet mr. preston had late last month with minneapoli investor irwin jacobs. 
 nissan motor co. and toyota motor corp. are introduc luxuri model in the u.s. this fall for $35,000 to $40,000 each.th price for nissan infin and toyota lexus give the japanes maker an edg over most european luxuri cars, but still general exceed the price of ford lincoln line and general motor cadillac division. 
 nissan motor corp., in a bid to boost market share at the expens of detroit big three auto maker and other rival in a sluggish sale environment, said it is cut price on an import compact car line. 
 in what it describ as a major introduction, nestl s.a. stouffer food corp. is roll out a new line of low-cholesterol, low-fat, and low-sodium entre call right course. 
 stouffer said right cours packag will tell consum the exact amount of cholesterol, fat and sodium in a given entre and also provid the american heart associ recommend for total averag daili intake.earli this year, conagra inc. introduc a similar line call healthi choice. 
 but instead of melt the cooki over an open fire, they go into a microwav oven.most of the other product are simpli line extens of exist best-sel that don't repres much of an innov gamble. 
  new account: nation footbal leagu properties, new york, name grey advertising, new york, agenc of record for it nfl merchandis line call team nfl. bill weren't disclosed. 
 commodor intern ltd. u.s. unit said it sign an agreement for connect point of america inc., a larg chain, to carri it person computers.harri copperman, presid of the unit, said in an interview that the agreement is aim primarili at west chester, pa.-bas commodor amiga line. 
 you have to build an aw big compani to get a reason return."such invest are risk more easili by larg companies, such as intern busi machin corp. and apple, that can subsid research and develop out of profit from older lines. 
 other factor also aid exist companies.although the comput market is much larger than it was 10 year ago, most custom now have settl on comput line to use in obvious applications. 
 the u.s. sale arm of japan mazda motor corp. has set up a task forc to studi the feasibl of establish a second dealer network in the u.s.mazda current sell a line of import and u.s.-mad car and truck through 844 dealer nationwide. 
 ---ibm plan to announc today some model of it as/400 minicomput line and a new releas of it operating-system software, sourc said. 
 cincinnati milacron inc. said it complet the purchas of hayssen manufactur co. line of extrus blow-mold machin and will take over the busi of manufacturing, sell and servic this equipment. 
 intern busi machin corp. introduc two model of it as/400 minicomput line and a new releas of the operating-system software. 
 he make an authorit spokesman.a member of one of the hand of distinguish famili that domin the art, he belong to the kabuki act line of omodaka, which has flourish for six generations. 
 intern busi machin corp. will announc today some model of it as/400 minicomput line and a new releas of it operating-system software, industri execut said. 
 in armonk, n.y., an ibm spokesman said the compani has schedul a press brief for today relat to it midrang product line but declin to elaborate.th industri execut said ibm will announc model in the middl of the as/400 line to get custom to upgrad from the ibm system 36, the less power of the two line that ibm combin into the as/400. 
 mr. cohen said that becaus of the weak he has cut his forecast of as/400 shipment this year to between 55,000 and 60,000 machines, down from his project late last year of 70,000 to 75,000.he added, though, that he doesn't think that pose a problem for ibm this year, becaus it is exceed it expect at the high end of the as/400 line.us of ibm system 38 -- the more power line that was merg into the as/400 -- have bought lot of the high-end machin becaus mani were desper for more comput capac and move their softwar was easy. 
 the electrolux appliances, import from europ and the u.s., will begin appear at sharp outlet in october."it will be a fair complet line of our most upscal products," mr. johansson explained. 
 previously, ford hadn't offer cash rebat on these f-seri trucks.last year, the f-seri truck were the best-sel line of vehicl in the u.s. 
 he said he also hope to develop an area the compani has just begun, home furnish such as wallpaper.sourc say balmain had sale last year of about 100 million french franc ($15 million) in it cloth lines, and, unlik mani fashion concerns, high fashion is one of it biggest revenu earners, after licens income. 
 the stock has risen steadili from the $6.50 price at which it was initi offer last thursday.new imag designs, assembl and market a line of comput imag system and software. 
 ---sharp agre to market in it store in japan a line of applianc made by sweden electrolux. 
 the suit seek to invalid patent held by autri industri inc. for transpar window in the sole of sneakers.canton, mass.-bas reebok said the suit was file in respons to claim by autri that certain reebok products, includ it new visibl er line of athlet footwear, infring on patent held by autry. 
 reebok also said it want to reassur it dealer that it will stand by the visibl products.nik inc., beaverton, ore., also offer a line of see-through shoes, call nike visibl air. 
 the weston unit, which employ about 200 worker at a plant near newark, n.j., has annual sale of about $12 million.ametek, a manufactur of industri products, said weston make a line of display gaug that complement the instrument line ametek alreadi suppli to the same aircraft builders. 
 gm said the decis to delay ad a second product shift at janesvill "reflect a recent downturn in the total medium-duti truck business."th janesvill plant is build a new line of gm medium-duti trucks, to be sold as the gmc topkick and the chevrolet kodiak. 
 after the end of the year, all of gm convent medium-duti truck will be built at the janesvill facility, the compani said.gm said product of it old line of convent medium-duti truck at the pontiac central facil in pontiac, mich., will be cut to one shift from two, begin sept. 16. 
 the two compani also left unansw the question of which comput design will prevail -- alway a touchi issu among proud engineers.mr. poduska told the analyst that the two line will be fulli compat by earli 1991. 
 industri heavyweight that previous ran upscal hotel and inn are move into the budget sector, say joseph doyle, a lodg industri analyst at smith barney harri upham & co.for example, holiday corp. launch it hampton inn line of budget motel in 1984, and marriott corp. start up the fairfield inn line in 1987. 
 for example, stafford blain design ltd. of minneapoli offer $14 white cotton shirt with render of renoir paint "two sister on a terrace" or gaugin "tahitian landscape."at the philadelphia convention, hourlong fashion show ran twice daili to help retail appreci the latest line of imprint cloth and graphic designs. 
 while temporari plant close have becom common dure this year of sluggish car sales, this shutdown is the first for the lorain, ohio, plant in sever years.it also the latest setback for the car line that start off 1989 win motor trend magazin "car of the year" award. 
 then in february, ford resort to divert more than 10,000 of the car to an amus park lot near the lorain factori until engin could find the caus of and elimin a mysteri rattl in some of the cars.to boost sale of the two models, ford was forc on aug. 1 to offer heavi $1,500 rebat on all but the supercharg version of the thunderbird and cougar lines. 
 in 1988, 45% of transamerica gross premium incom came from it specialti insur lines, with 20% from person and 35% from commerci insur business.mr. isom expect that specialti line will provid as much as 55% of premium incom in futur years, with smaller share from the other two areas.in 1983, none of the compani premium incom came from specialti lines. 
 toyota said total vehicl product for the year was 4,006,796 units, repres a 3.9% increas over the year before.ful model chang in the mark ii, chaser, cresta and hilux model were cite for the increas in unit sold, as were new model addit for toyota supra, vista, camry, corolla, sprinter, town ace and other exist lines. 
 deer & co. report a 21% rise in earn for it fiscal third quarter despit an oper loss in it lawn and grounds-car line. 
 deer stock fell 87.5 cents, to close at $60.125 in heavi trade on the new york stock exchange.karen ubelhart, an analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc., said wall street had been expect higher per-shar earn of around $1.40, and term the loss in the lawn and grounds-car line a surprise. 
 retail demand for industri equip remain modest higher than in 1988, deer said, but call it overal sale mix "less favor compar with last year."deer introduc a new line of farm equip last fall and increas price from 3% to 5%, but provid bank analyst jame peirc said that while price is "much improved, it is still not where the industri would like to be." 
 mazda aggress price strategi run counter to some other import brand that are minim their price rise to remain competit in the u.s. market.nissan motor co. alreadi restructur it entry-level sentra car line by elimin some model and make standard equip option on other 1990 versions. 
 "they'r also go to be search for the intang inher in a premium qualiti brand."mazda offici said they are studi the feasibl of ad a luxuri car sale divis in the u.s. similar to toyota lexus and nissan infin car lines. 
 averag share increas about 13%, to 19.3 million.del attribut the earn declin in part to price reduct on comput use the intel corp. 80286 microprocessor, a line that is reach maturity. 
 "we continu to look for way to improv our product by updat them, offer a more-modern look and introduc new products" said mr. kyle.for example, the compani has begun promot a new line of cake and pie in flavor that chang monthly.in addition, he said a line of honey-graham cooki call tasti bears, aim at children age six to 12, has been well receiv sinc it debut in may. 
 "we prefer to invest in softwar compani with $2 million to $5 million in revenu instead of start them from scratch," say andrew rachleff, a partner in merrill, pickard, anderson & eyre.th palo alto, calif., ventur firm recent led a $4 million financ to buy softwar line for a newli form company. 
 anacomp inc. said it xidex unit will manufactur a line of floppy-disk product for hewlett-packard co. 
 just five month after it introduction, general motor corp. is rais the price of it 1990 chevrolet lumina sedan, the first of a new line of four-door sedan gm is count on to boost it sag car-market share. 
 some answer are surpris simple.with market-research assist arrang by netaac, a paper compani introduc a line of snazzi paper sold with instruct to write a resume. 
 for a printing-equip maker, netaac came up with a two-prong solution.it is help the compani to simplifi it product to reduc product and servic costs, and to come up with a low-pric line to export to industri countries, mr. mclaughlin says. 
 automat data process inc. said fourth-quart earn rose 9% and predict a more than 10% increas in per-shar earn for the new fiscal year.th computer-servic compani attribut the earn growth to strength in it employer-servic and dealer-servic businesses, and said it expect both those line to have double-digit growth in the year end june 30. 
 he was general optimistic, despit acknowledg that the first half was "high disappointing."h said the rollout of the 2200 line of mainfram -- whose delay caus some of the recent problem -- "went, if anything, better than we expected." 
 after 18 month of ad new region markets, the compani has near complet the introduct of it top-shelf microwav entrees, design to remain fresh on grocery-stor shelv without freezing.it newer chicken by georg line is just get under way. 
 mr. marotta and ms. zain also have clone the amyloid protein gene and have transplant it into cell grown in a test tube.thi line of cell is now produc excess quantiti of beta-amyloid protein, also known as a4 peptide. 
 "the market is still veri short of stock," one dealer said."although privat client are stick to the sidelines, most institut are still on the lookout for a good, reason price line of stock." 
 mr. mcdonald maintain that prime $500-million-a-year comput servic busi generat enough cash to pay the interest.h said prime fast-grow computer design busi may get more r&d funding, and that the proprietari seri 50 minicomput line will be abl to cut costs. 
 while imit may be the sincerest form of flattery, anthoni maglica would appreci fewer kudos.mr. maglica, presid and owner of mag instrument inc., design a line of high-priced, high-qual flashlights, known as the mag-lit and mini maglite. 
 part of geo problem has been that it product offer are as muddl as a hockey team in the middl of a fli line change.al chevi dealer sell the line had the metro minicar, but they didn't begin receiv the restyl geo prizm, previous the chevrolet nova, until earlier this year. 
 however, par disclos in a file with the secur and exchang commiss that the fda inspect of the company, includ quad, continues.in it filing, par said sale and gross margin of quad inject line "may also be advers affected, although to a lesser extent." 
 mani custom seem to have been won over, and ibm unveil some product last week that consult said should confirm that view.som of the product were enhanc for ibm so-cal privat branch exchang that make the telephon switch mesh better with the siemen line. 
 lockhe has outpac the standard & poor aerospac index in the past decade, and appear certain to surviv the defens industri shake-out.it doe face some short-term negatives, such as this year wind down of the c-5b transport and p3 anti-submarin aircraft programs; complet of the f-117a stealth fighter line in 1990; and a high level of defer incom taxes. 
 despit previous flop within this niche, campbel soup co., kraft general food and nestl enterpris inc. all are test-market prepackaged, refriger fresh food that need onli be tote home and heat or light cooked.and nestl s.a. carnat co. alreadi sell a limit line of chill fare nationwid and say it may expand. 
 last year, the compani said it hope to introduc american shopper to it chill fare through king supermarket inc., a small chain of upscal new jersey grocer that it had just acquired.except to say that a come launch of new food line would be "significant," a spokeswoman last week wouldn't elabor on the compani plans. 
 such a complex system is difficult to match in the u.s., where distribut chain are long.indeed, jame h. moran, public-rel director for campbell, cite distribut problem as one reason whi the compani withdrew it fresh chef line of refriger sauces, soup and salad two year ago. 
 now, campbel is tri again.in philadelphia, it is test-market fresh kitchen, a new line of refriger sauces, entre and desserts. 
 culinova fresh entrees, launch in 1986 by philip morri cos. general food corp., hit similar distribut problems.last december, short after philip morri bought kraft inc., the struggl line was scrapped. 
 last december, short after philip morri bought kraft inc., the struggl line was scrapped.but kraft general foods, the offspr of philip morri acquisition, is press ahead with the chilleri line of entrees, salads, pasta and dessert origin develop by kraft. 
 nestle, the swiss giant, has jump into the u.s. chilled-food market on two fronts.it nestl enterpris subsidiary, base in solon, ohio, is test-market a line of upscal entre and salad call freshnes. 
 food-industri expert say that those type of product are less temperature-sensit than fanci entrees.carn is look at broaden it refrigerated-food line, say richard curd, a compani spokesman, although he too declin to elaborate. 
 it a sport that now occupi a larg part of his life.until recent a st. louis-bas editor at a success outdoor magazine, mr. kruger move to the ozark to focus on flyfish for bass -- to write about it, to guid float-trip and to develop a line of lures. 
 but they are also tri to soft-ped the price increas -- by scatter them all over the window sticker, end discount on option and put last year middle-of-the-lineup name on this year base model.consid the strategi general motor corp. is use on the soon-to-be-introduc 1990 version of it high-volum chevrolet corsica line. 
 that averag to about $750 a vehicle, chrysler offici say.whil gm price increas may not look as steep as it two domest rivals, that larg becaus ford and chrysler are make air bag standard equip on more of their car lines. 
 ford is rais the price of it bronco ii sport util vehicl $607, or 4.3%, to $14,718, even though sale of the vehicl have fallen about 13% this year and the latest model is due to be replac next spring by an all-new product.chrysler, meanwhile, is look to earn more on it lebaron line of coup by load more equip -- includ a new v-6 engin -- into a "premium" version of the car. 
 oldsmobil silhouette, which is virtual ident to the pontiac, will start at $17,195.bi comparison, much of chrysler minivan line is less expensive. 
 prime comput inc., natick, mass., unveil two comput in it new exl 1200 line base on multiprocessor comput made by sequent comput system inc., beaverton, ore. 
 the commerc depart announc last month that it was lift export curb on a wide class of desktop computers.but the order carri out that decis add not onli laptop but other, more power version of intern busi machin corp. ps/2 line than the origin announc covered. 
 nissan motor co. is consolid it sentra budget car line for 1990 by elimin some model and make higher-pr version of other avail onli as special option packages. 
 "the growth is less rapid than expected," an intel spokeswoman said.also contribut to the outlook, she said, were start-up cost associ with a line of comput that intel plan to start ship in the current quarter and cost of prepar for mass shipment of the compani new 80486 chip in the fourth quarter. 
 as part of the restructuring, interlak also said it intend to focus on it core businesses, includ powder metals, aerospac components, and storag and handl products.it plan to divest itself of unrel lines, but it didn't specifi what they are. 
 royc laboratories, likewis isn't profitable.th compani says, however, that it is await approv from the fda to manufactur and sell 12 generic prescript drug and it intend to expand it line of over-the-count drug product to increas revenue. 
 donnkenni inc. was bet lightn would strike again when it put the name of dian von furstenberg, the jet-set socialit who had a hot design label in the 1970s, on a line of dress earlier this year. 
 the lawsuit say the name ivana is wide associ with mrs. trump busi dealings, and that pavion ltd. ivana lipstick is "an attempt to capit on {mrs.} trump celebr status."th lawsuit, which seek damag of at least $10 million, also say that mrs. trump is use the name for her own line of perfume. 
 a decad after it betamax home-video format lost out to rival vhs, soni corp. of america, a unit of the japanes consumer-electron giant, is tri to forc it way back into the video limelight with it 8mm format, launch four year ago.soni hope to popular "video 8" through the concept of "person video" -- video wherev you go -- as exemplifi by it video walkman line: tini battery-oper color mini-tv with built-in videocassett recorders. 
 mr. tarlow declin to comment, but a revlon spokesman indic that the agenc were drop "for classic client-ag reasons."th onli agenc to surviv yesterday cut are ketchum advertising, new york, which is work on a major product introduct for a new line of hair-car products; and peter roger associates, which handl the advertis for scaasi, a perfume. 
 young & rubicam continu as agenc of record for network and print media buying.hil holliday handl advertis for revlon charli and troubl fragrances, clean & clear hair care line and nutrasom hair care treatment. 
 analyst say this isn't impossible, given their own project that black & decker earn could soar to $5 to $6 a share over the same period.black & decker purchas of general electr small applianc line in 1985 "was more riski than emhart," mr. archibald declares. 
 hartmarx agre june 27 to sell countri miss, base in easton, pa., to lb for about $62 million, the file says.countri miss, which make and retail moder price sportswear, is on the block becaus it doesn't fit into hartmarx focus on upscale, higher-qu cloth lines. 
 the compani was devast in the earli 1980s, when virtual all of it busi were rock by a deep recession.onc an industri scaveng that grew through acquisit and turnaround of mature, out-of-favor manufacturers, it began shed virtual all it line and take huge write-off in recent years. 
 taco bell of irvine, calif., anoth major new client of foot cone san francisco, had previous been at omnicom group tracy-lock agenc in los angeles.a strong creativ reput certain help foot cone and other west coast agenc like hal riney, whose nation account includ general motor new saturn line. 
 the highest-pr car, the 911 carrera 4 cabriolet convertible, will remain at $77,800.the ad featur includ driver-sid and passenger-sid air bag on all of the compani car lines; not all 1989 model had air bags. 
 "i think the govern want to use market forces, rather than regulations, to make the compani achiev economi of scale," say mr. pinon.govern free-trad hope that produc will ceas product of some line that could more effect be imported, and turn out more of the model they make best. 
 reebok intern ltd. said it reach an agreement in principl to buy the boston whaler unit of cml group inc. for about $42 million, signal a signific broaden of reebok product base.reebok has made sever acquisit in recent year to expand it athlet footwear and sportswear lines. 
 nonetheless, hewlett-packard is a huge compani with much greater resourc than sun and mips.it domin the risc market with it line of high-end workstations, and is the lead maker of all kind of workstat with it recent acquisit of apollo computer. 
 in the past, risc/unix machin have been veri expensive, and limit most to scientif and engin applications.but sun microsystem has led a movement to offer less expens workstat that are begin to compet with ibm ps/2 line and with appl comput macintosh. 
 hispan tracking: telemundo group and univis holdings, as expected, sign a contract with a.c. nielsen for the develop of a nation hispan tv rate servic use peopl meters.new accounts: crystal brand jewelri group, new york, award it monet, trifari and marvella line to margeot fertitta & weiss, new york. 
 capit spend will total about $34 million in the current fiscal year as the compani continu to upgrad plants.in fiscal 1989, capit outlay total $51 million, with $11 million go to sharpli expand product of oat bran at it cedar rapids, iowa, plant, and anoth sizabl amount to launch a line of microwav chili and other entre in single-serv packs. 
 ametek inc. said it complet the acquisit of general electr co. instrument-product unit in exchang for $110 million and the transfer of an ametek plastic plant to ge.ametek, a paoli, pa., industri manufacturer, said the acquisit would strong complement it line of jet-aircraft instruments. 
 that rate was 98%, compar with 39% last year, the compani said.th rail-intermod line, which consist of piggyback trailers, domest contain and chassis, repres about 60% of the compani business. 
 but the sale increas came off relat weak 1988 result and indic a general lacklust retail environ like to continu for the rest of 1989, analyst said.in general, depart and specialti store fare better, becaus of some shift away from bigger ticket purchas such as automobil to apparel lines. 
 at dallas-bas j.c. penney co., which has increas it depend on fashion merchandise, same-stor sale rose 9.7% against a 2.5% decreas a year ago.william r. howell, chairman, said the strongest gain result from children merchandise, but note that all apparel line had substanti increases. 
 at minneapolis-bas dayton hudson corp., same-stor sale rose 6.9% for juli and 5.9% for the 26 weeks."th month sale growth was led by soft lines," said kenneth a. macke, chairman and chief execut officer. 
 but with the luxuri market soft and consum confid about make car purchas waning, that may not be enough to establish a strong presence.th line also face the challeng of forg an ident -- one distinct not onli from lexus rival but also from toyota itself. 
 and by borrow exterior and dashboard-styl cue from mercedes-benz, say some experts, lexus risk get a "copycat" label instead of a distinct identity.also, while lexus price compar favor with those of european cars, they don't look particular attract alongsid the price of ford lincoln line and general motor corp. cadillac division. 
 but ibm post an earn gain of 39%; the rise was just 8% after adjust the year-earli result for a restructur charg and a gain on a sale.ibm had it first signific revenu gain in the u.s. in years, and got a strong perform from it as/400 minicomput line -- which wasn't yet introduc a year earlier. 
 in his letter, mr. jacob said that, like amway, he would sell avon giorgio bever hill inc. and parfum stern inc. units, as well as other oper that avon may be treat as discontinued.in recent month the new york-bas compani has been dispos of ancillari busi to concentr on it line of household good and cosmetics, which are distribut primarili through a direct-sal force. 
 so, a number of vintners, larg and small, are show sign of battl fatigue.no. 2-rank heublein inc., a unit of grand metropolitan plc, is regist steep declin in it almaden and inglenook lines. 
 the sudden recognit work magic (though it came as someth of a shock to the natives, "who do these new yorker think they are, come out here and beat us at our own game?"), and the veri first vintag sold out quickly.ther wasn't much of it, however, and the vineyard need cash flow, so bruno came up with the idea of a line of inexpens wines, proprietor reserv red and white, that were first offer at $2.99 a bottle. 
 sale leap to 1.5 million case by 1987, with proprietor reserv chardonnay lead the pack.in fact, the success of the proprietor reserv line advers affect sale of glen ellen estat wines, barrel-ag chardonnay, sauvignon blanc, and cabernet sauvignon that were sold most to restaurants. 
 meanwhile, glen ellen proprietor reserv sale continu to soar.th line has now expand to includ a select dri white, sauvignon blanc, merlot and white zinfandel. 
 fetzer success is larg due to the enorm popular of it moder price varietals, sundial chardonnay and valley oak fume blanc, which sell for about $7.50 and $6 respectively.fetz make a full line of variet wines, all excel value, especi the barrel select zinfandel and reserv pinot noir. 
 data general corp. introduc a line of person comput and workstat compat with intern busi machin corp. pc-at computers. 
 the new model rang from a compact desktop machin to a power network server and are price from $2,995 to $8,495.data general also introduc softwar that let pc user communic with it larger minicomput line. 
 among other things, the compani had been slow in integr the market of both fireston and bridgeston brand tires.for instance, bridgeston tire onli recent were ad to fireston line at fireston chain of mastercar automot repair stores. 
 bmw sale drop 15.6%, while volkswagen ag sale fell 11.7%.however, volkswagen audi line boost sale 61.5% in juli to 2,653 vehicles. 
 the rebound came in the wake of the nation highway traffic safeti administr announc in mid-juli that it had found no mechan defect in audi 5000 model that could have caus the car to sudden acceler out of control.publ about sudden acceler in that now-discontinu model line had stain audi imag and help to depress sale for near three years. 
 so the japan of the 21st centuri may be expect to assum the role of a matur creditor country, import more than it is exporting, and earn more from it foreign asset hold than it is invest abroad to add to them.finally, the deep-seat mercantilist orient of the japanes economi will probabl be buffet by two strong forc in the intern trade arena: formal and inform protection in the u.s. and european market as well as the displac of japanes consum durabl product by compet line from south korea, taiwan, singapor and hong kong. 
 however, makita fail to convinc the judg that it so-cal trade dress is distinct enough.th itc call echo it 1987 decis uphold an administr law judg rule to dismiss samsonit corp. complaint that four taiwanes manufactur illeg copi one of the colorado firm popular luggag lines. 
 it is limit onli by the creativ of the peopl who'll relaunch it."mr. carosi insist hasbro has made some advanc in the area of line extensions. 
 after a swig, mr. carosi says, the doll burps.and then there the design cabbag patch line that featur doll dress in trendi fashions. 
 he adds, however, that video air is start to tri tie in advertis with movies.for "rain man," whose video releas will includ a nation ad for buick, video air is "tri to get local buick dealer to do a tag at the end of the ad, saying, come see our line of buick at your local dealer,'" mr. mathi says. 
 but wertheim mr. gell is doubtful."generally, line extens just prolong the agoni by increas the relianc on those products, which don't grow as fast as their precursors," he says. 
 notably, befor the fda procedur were revis by the waxman-hatch act of 1984, the agenc made the generic maker go through a batteri of addit chemic and other test to prove their drug effect and safety, not just bioequivalence.but congress want to creat more price competit in mani pharmaceut lines, and therefor expedit the fda treatment of generic drug applications. 
 the compani has invest more than $4 million in hdtv product gear, say barri rebo, president.with 40 employe and about $3.5 million in annual revenue, rebo produc hdtv program and is develop a line of specialti equip for hdtv production. 
 some firms, like horchow mail order inc. in dalla and sharper imag co. in san francisco, offer onli limit guarante on merchandis -- a bold departur from a tradit among catalog compani of lure custom away from retail with lifetim warranties.som firms, like spiegel inc. of oak brook, ill., and sears, roebuck & co., chicago, discontinu line with higher return rates. 
 viag expans also has focus on aluminum operations, in it vereinigt aluminium werk ag. viag has increas smelt capac through the purchas of a 20% stake in a canadian smelter that is be built.th compani also is effect ad a line, refractori product and industri ceramics, by boost it stake in didier-werk ag to 49% from 27%. 
 octel communic corp., milpitas, calif., said fiscal fourth-quart earn rose 57%, and announc plan to sell 1.5 million common shares.octel, cite "good result sell our voice-process line to larg corpor customers," said profit for the quarter, end june 30, was $3.3 million, or 21 cent a share, compar with $2.1 million, or 15 cent a share, a year earlier. 
 "peopl will turn to the next question: what kind of real momentum will be creat by the combin of these businesses?" ask david maccallum, a new york pharmaceut analyst for san francisco broker hambrecht & quist inc."i don't think there anyth those two organ will do that will creat signific momentum for the top (sales) line." 
 mr. gumucio said cray is encount discount price by ibm, particular in bid for univers contracts.convex is be aggress in battl for departmental-s machines, at the low end of cray line. 
 but now, it white-collar rank have balloon to 31,000.much of this was the by-product of chrysler 1987 acquisit of american motor corp. and it hot-sel jeep line. 
 just yesterday, chrysler doubl the rebat on those omni and horizon subcompact to $1,500 -- a whop 23% discount.such discount put more pressur on it minivan and jeep to generat profit, but those line are about to be bombard by new competitors. 
 three year ago, that all changed.doravill was select to build a new line of midsiz coupes, code-nam "gm-10" and cost $5 billion to develop. 
 the firm problem realli began in the mid-1980s, when it decid against seek a share of the new generat of fighter envis by the navi in order to concentr it technic and financi resourc on an overrid goal: win the multibillion-dollar contract to build a replac for the bulbous-nos a-6 intruder, the navi onli long-range, all-weath bomber.but the compani isn't among the firm pick for that contract, leav it without a new line of warplan when product of it battle-test but age model is phase out. 
 gm is mere suffer -- and hunt for a cure.it is ad four-door sedan to the gm-10 line.it is convert two auto plant to truck production, close a car plant in framingham, mass., this summer, and plan to squeez product of one of it large-car line into two assembl plant instead of three. 
 but it must also serv exist buyer of it older computers, which provid the bulk of sales."th declin of data general exist proprietari product continu to overshadow the transit to the new unix-bas line," said barri f. willman, an analyst with sanford c. bernstein & co. 
 boe co. second-quart net incom jump 20% on stronger revenue, but the world lead aircraft maker stress that it continu "to face signific challeng and risks" in both it commerci and militari lines. 
 "you still have to convinc homeown that this (dymetrol) perform better than springs," mr. bost says.industri expert also say that sears, which of late has been stress it "everyday low prices," may be hinder in it abil to sell it line, which it has posit as more fashion and more expens than the typic furnitur it sells. 
 "sear has the clout and the credibl when it come to furniture," say jerri epperson, a secur analyst at wheat first securities.sear and du pont introduc the last imag furnitur line at the american craft museum here in a model live room similar to the one that will be set up this fall in 450 of sear larger stores. 
 