`` he may lose all popular support , but someon has to kill him to defeat him and that 's hard to do. '' 
 clever white hous `` spin doctor '' are have a hard time help presid bush explain away the econom bash that low-and middle-incom worker are take these day . 
 i find it hard to believ that the sacramento river will ever be quit the same , although i certain wish that i 'm wrong . 
 now when you get bad credit data or are confus with anoth person , the hard part in correct the mistak is not even know where it is record , let alon have access . 
 'a great share of respons for this nation tragedi unquestion lie with the presid of the country. ' -- eduard shevardnadz , former foreign minist ; we are so deep in this crisi that all this busi about leav the parti , not leav the parti -- that will never get us out. ' -- natasha , a moscow bookkeep ; our life is harder now , yes , but it is better to be hungri and free. ' -- lena sedykh , a moscow street sweeper ; if you judg by astrolog , gorbachev is cancer , and yeltsin and russia are aquarius . 
 produc of action show , like cannel , are will to make them at a bargain price to help cbs open up a new market for one-hour action show , which have becom hard to sell in the rerun market . 
 vote against seek addit sourc of fund was supervisor ray belgard , who told his colleagu , `` we have to face the hard fact of life . 
 it 's hard to make the column even , to neat space the text insid the cell of the tabl , to adjust the tabl when inform need to be ad , to make except to stretch entri across sever cell , to add period color or shade to cell , and so on . 
 `` it may be hard just to finish these remarks. '' 
 now that amanda blake has die , is it hard portray matt dillon without miss kitti ? 
 even though mani of the univers 's 30 , 638 student are more conserv and career-ori than their 60s and 70s predecessor , and it 's harder to drum up big crowd for a protest than it use to be , telegraph retain a mystic -- if mangi -- aura . 
 it 's hard to put into word , but sinc that day i ve felt much more confid . 
 it 's hard to believ i 'm see it start to rise out of the ground , `` sheriff harvey nyland said after a groundbreak ceremoni . 
 `` and we are pleas to announc that alreadi coke , pepsi and other have express enthusiasm and interest in particip in this expand mtv servic , further support their alreadi establish use of mtv as a vehicl to attract the hard-to-reach 12-34-year-old demographic. '' 
 `` chang was not hard for him , `` said his daughter , dian nelson of santa maria . 
 i tri to have fun with everyth i do , but the hard part is i ll make a good pitch and i ll tri to make it better the next time out , `` he said . 
 he 's the first to say that wife lisa is go through the hard part , but it was n't bad for a 25-year-old guy who 's expect to becom a first-tim pop ani day now . 
 it 's hard to ignor a voodoo-lik bent in her 28-inch iraqi dictat doll . 
 it also make the job hard . 
 find it hard to understand how anyon seek a posit in public life could demonstr such poor judgment and bad tast . 
 the slump in busi activ and the accompani `` credit crunch '' have been especi hard on owner of these high-yield , high-risk secur , whether they own them direct or through mutual fund . 
 the a 's : ; phoenix/temp ; there 's so much to do near phoenix stadium that it 's hard to decid where to fit in a spring train basebal game . 
 but if there are enough guy and they all have big stick or someth , it becom hard for ani dog. '' 
 old ladi are crotcheti and hard to pleas . 
 `` it 's ( becom ) harder to steal a car , `` said lt. jeann miller of the detroit polic depart 's major crime divis . 
 `` when you run by yourself , it 's hard to get motivated. '' 
 ( check ) it 's often hard to tell if a can is aluminum or steel . 
 despit all the rhetor , it is truli hard to make a case that big busi is overtax in california . 
 that is harder to bear. '' 
 as you walk through this verdant landscap , it is n't hard to get a sens of the area 's histori . 
 `` i have a hard time with the use of the word. '' 
 `` when you have a disast like the oakland hill fire , it 's hard to rememb everyth . 
 `` it was a uniqu project , a high-risk project , and it was put in such an unfortun time slot ( opposit 48 hour ' and quantum leap ' ) that it would be hard to get anyon interest in it . 
 `` four generat of our famili have come here , and everi year , it get harder to get in. '' 
 all the easi cut and a bunch of the hard one were made in bridg the $ 14 billion gap in june . 
 earlier studi suggest up-and-down diet make it harder to lose weight and may have unhealthi consequ . 
 it 's hard to control teen-ag ' behavior , but not imposs . 
 it 's hard to defin whether stewart mean he wo n't talk at all or whether he just wo n't tell the truth as he see it . 
 the slump economi unquestion has been hard on america 's citi , counti and school district . 
 after the fire , baldwin said , it has been hard for him to look at the sprawl brick plant , which he can see everi time he step out the front door of his apart . 
 the empir state build is a high-profil symbol that might be hard to resist . 
 he said it was hard for him to get up each morn and pick up his crutch , which he call `` my other set of legs. '' 
 and should fsu be undef after play the cougar , michigan , lsu , louisvill , south carolina , miami and florida , it ll be hard not to give them the titl . 
 despit lower home price and higher apartment-vac rate , the nation 's poor are find it harder than ever to find decent , afford hous , a studi said this week . 
 diamond are hard to get . 
 there have been so mani revel against bettelheim recent that it is hard to know what to make of them all , said dr. loui jolyon west , a professor of psychiatri at ucla . 
 the crew member wait with the pothol becaus if they left -- and you may find this hard to believ -- impati driver would simpli mow down the laugh cone and plow right over the crew 's handiwork . 
 it 's hard enough have one success mysteri charact -- how doe smith manag two ? 
 it 's aw hard to achiev a balanc , but parent need to appli common sens and listen to their gut reactions. '' 
 the miami dolphin found out the hard way sunday : the silverdom is no place to come for a parti . 
 this time around the condit are differ and the choic is far harder . 
 pat hurst , who made the jump from amateur to profession golf six week ago , is learn the hard way that mistak can be cost . . . in the pocketbook . 
 `` the field is hard out there , so i 'm not concern , `` said manag cito gaston , who believ defens cost the blue jay the east in 1990 . 
 but even fellow isra cabinet member find it hard to stop the hawkish hous minist who savor sprinkl the occupi land with new jewish settlement . 
 the world of comput is so huge that it 's hard to pick one program , peripher or processor , that show where the person comput is after 10 year . 
 but at least one firm familiar with the new law say a scarc suppli of comput profession may make it hard to reduc overtim benefit . 
 it 's harder to tell with banksid veget . 
 `` when it drag out two or three year , it 's hard for a union to sustain momentum , `` anderson said . 
 current servic consist of unlimit curbsid pickup in the citi 's flatland area at $ 16.73 per month and a variabl rate in the hard-to-serv hillsid area rang from $ 11.97 for one can to $ 20.30 for five can . 
 the first issu includ a news stori on a major sale of vintag jersey , a background piec on the uniqu style of hard-to-find 1970 cleveland indian shirt and a short list of 1991 uniform chang . 
 `` if you tri to pick out the separ voic in the chorus of whi denni eckart is leav , it is go to be hard , `` eckart ad . 
 `` this , `` said young , `` was a hard one . 
 to defend yourself : it 's hard not to be influenc , so `` just say no '' to slur campaign . 
 it 's veri hard to pick it apart into percentag . 
 `` he has a hard time complet a thought . 
 ( box ) mixed-sign chip are hard to make right the first time . 
 and it is hard enough refus a bonbon nowaday , without consid how one might polit refus to be serv a member of the household . 
 instead , oppon like hous speaker thoma foley , d-spokan , stood the argument on it ear , implor his home state 's voter not to throw away their hard-won polit power in a fit of piqu over unpaid restaur tab and bounc check . 
 bever hayon , spokeswoman for kaiser permanent medic care program , said `` it 's hard to see how ( this ) is go to stop the aid epidem . 
 if alli figur are anywher near correct -- it is hard to know , sinc a british report that 300 iraqi were kill at khafji shrank to 30 by the time the saudi brief a coupl of hour later -- the iraqi leader was given a bloodi nose . 
 `` it 's hard for us girl ! `` she say and laugh . 
 it 's hard to care . 
 `` they do n't have to make it harder than it alreadi is. '' 
 nonetheless , as hous resolut 1 is fast-track through the hous , the complex of legal languag defin what is or is n't a legitim busi necess in hire and promot worker make it veri hard for the bill 's sponsor to prove that it will not lead to quota in employ , as the administr charg . 
 origin , it attach recycl engin to bicycl , a popular mode of transport in the hard year that follow world war ii . 
 `` it 's hard to rest him , but when you ve got a guy like willi ( wilson ) in his place , it 's not so hard. '' 
 devin , howev , note that first nationwid must ultim achiev it goal of provid ford an averag annual return of 15 percent on it invest , someth that is increas hard to do in the troubl save and loan busi . 
 `` when i go home , it 's hard to even walk outsid , becaus i see the suffer of peopl , and it hurt me . 
 `` if a young boy who had a veri hard life becom a dope addict and then sudden turn it all around . . . is he less of a role model becaus he did n't go through the regular scenario of colleg , a b.a. and an m.a. and do someth in the communiti ? 
 he found it hard to be go the opposit direct of his teammat , who are a surpris 24-19 . 
 troubl is , when you re market a museum intern , it 's hard to explain that a garag is a high-tech attract . 
 the lawsuit cite case where differ consum ' report were mix togeth and said such inaccuraci are hard to correct . 
 it was come up on an hour sinc the final buzzer sound and still jordan look as if he 'd just heard the best or worst news of his life ; it was hard to tell . 
 until i hear the doctor say he 's ok , it 's go to be hard to concentr . 
 that 's sometim hard for us to keep in mind. '' 
 `` they are hard to get to , and there are no road for the rescu equip to travel on. '' 
 `` it 's a littl harder , a lot faster and a lot quicker than the race i saw on tv , `` basaca said . 
 it 's hard to imagin that ani american who has such prioriti would fess up about them to a pollster . 
 for the time be , consum can expect to have a harder time get loan and to pay more for them . 
 `` it 's not hard watch a team warm up to see how much athlet abil it has , `` shaw said . 
 howev , i found windowbas much harder to get close to than acefil . 
 nine year and two kid later , absolut quiet is hard to come by in our live . 
 it 's a littl harder to say becaus i have n't seen this cartoon and i did see `` littl mermaid. '' 
 `` it 's hard for me not to cri right now , `` he said . 
 hilton also wrote that the fire has been `` an extrem hard thing to deal with '' and that live with it memori `` for the rest of my life is a terribl burden. '' 
 tough reform plan ; last week , russian presid bori yeltsin said he was about to begin a seri of tough econom reform that at first would make life even harder for the averag person . 
 now , lamott say , canin 's gone through a coupl of hard , tens year write `` blue river. '' 
 `` let 's face it , men in boat have given the whale a hard time , `` said holli jaff , a capistrano beach offic manag make her second trip with cole . 
 that should make it even harder for the giant to swallow . 
 ferreira , who is recov from massiv wound on his left arm and side , vow to ride the wave again. ( dot ) page 1b ; at wide receiv , daniell schurr ; when you re a girl play wide receiv for a high school footbal team , it 's hard to avoid the limelight , but that 's the way daniell schurr of fremont 's irvington high want it -- no special attent , no special treatment . 
 it 's hard to know which psycholog complex -- the democrat ' or the republican ' -- hurt us more as a nation . 
 ( box ) for a hard crust , bake bread until it feel like a brick becaus crust soften as it cool . 
 `` the princ of tide ' is about tom wingo and his voic , and i think the film preserv that , and that 's a hard thing , `` said co-produc andrew karsch . 
 it 's cruelli hard to give up the sound of mob roar , `` run , jess , run. '' 
 i think it 's realli hard to laugh on camera at nothing. '' 
 hous speaker thoma foley , d-wash. , said it was hard to take bush 's suggest serious in light of exempt that bush enjoy from various law , includ the freedom of inform act and the law restrict lobbi by former govern offici . 
 the foreign minist said , no -- this film is not go to be shown abroad. ' `` ; `` the nasti girl , `` a big hit in berlin and munich , was harder to suppress . 
 it 's hard to imagin the cours of the civil right movement without the revelatori and shock fire hose and beat footag . 
 the small car made by the general motor corp. subsidiari offici went on sale oct. 25 , but quality-control standard made them hard to come by until recent at the more than 60 saturn dealership . 
 and the two most common with bed ' are that , one , it 's hard to put down and , two -- i heard this from two old ladi who 'd been given the book by their children -- that this is n't a novel , it 's about truth. '' 
 wes raynal , autoweek ; ( hbox ) ; `` low profil is pretti hard in a car this bright , a characterist that set the r/t apart from the taurus sho . 
 but keef said he might have reach a point in stanford 's system where it 's hard to improv the number that get notic -- his 21.2 point per game . 
 while the galant has been a success , mitsubishi recogn that it late entri into that nich make it hard to overcom the edg establish by the toyota and honda model . 
 rev. lou sheldon , head of the conserv tradit valu coalit in orang counti and a lead oppon of ab 101 , acknowledg that the longer it take wilson to approv the measur , the harder it will be for his group to collect enough valid signatur for a ballot issu . 
 it 's all harder than we ever imagin , and there is nowher to turn for help . 
 it 's hard to start a candidaci when you do n't know who your voter will be . 
 it is a sea of modernist vignett -- and while mani of them are superb in themselv , it 's hard not to wonder if the overal design was the result of polit compromis as much as architectur intent . 
 but it will be hard to take him out of the start lineup at this rate . 
 that someth is hard to pin down , a consist surpris off-cent fresh that 's friendly-fresh , not aggressive-fresh like `` twin peaks. '' 
 becaus schimpel teach math , a subject in which qualifi teacher are hard to find , she figur she 's more secur than mani . 
 still , it 's hard to be humbl . 
 `` whi is it so hard to admit a mistak was made '' in approv prozac ? 
 it is difficult to get reserv and even harder to get the name of a hotel where you are suppos to stay . 
 a lot of peopl have a hard enough time with this in mild weather . 
 it was veri hard to take. '' 
 `` it was hard to get use to , but i did. '' 
 ( hbox ) ; the hospit industri , with a critic labor shortag , is target potenti employe who may have a harder time in other field : beginn , older worker , student and mother of young children . 
 lawrenc adelman , an analyst and vice presid with dean witter reynold inc. , said , `` they re tri to come to grip with all their problem -- whether it be domest snack or intern snack or kfc -- make the hard decis in 1991 and go forward with a veri posit momentum into 1992. '' 
 `` for sheer ingratitud , this report is hard to beat . '' 
 the earli indic are that stadium club will remain hard to get . 
 you ought not to tri to stick it out ; that would onli make it harder for everi one . 
 `` so i do think if you give peopl what they want -- i guess it 's hard to determin what they want -- they re readi to support a museum. '' 
 suspect porn ; san francisco art photograph jock sturg learn this lesson the hard way in april 1990 after the manag of a photo-process lab report to the fbi that he had receiv negat of nude young girl . 
 it could be hard for a famili . 
 ( box ) 87 percent of all adult think parent today have a hard time make end meet . 
 in fact , it 's hard to think of a day of the week that this dopey new nbc clip show would be `` the best of. '' 
 he is make it hard for the a 's to keep him off the team . 
 `` it 's a hard languag to do with diplomaci . 
 `` i ve been in it 22 , 23 year now , and it was veri hard to fight , `` canol say . 
 the bush administr vehement oppos this provis , say it would lead to prolong appeal and make it harder to punish perpetr of heinous crime . 
 it was not unlik watch joe montana at work , make the hard play look easi . 
 `` it was still hard to leav . 
 it was the hardest loss i ve ever suffer , `` beckenhauer-hel said . 
 it 's hard to imagine. '' 
 back on the air : howard hesseman , back in charact as johnni fever on the new syndic `` wkrp in cincinnati , `` say the second time around is a lot harder . 
 in big d , it 's go saint : yes , it 's hard to believ , is n't it ? 
 the work is so collabor ; it 's hard for the origin vision to surviv intact . 
 time were hard , and money and job were scarc . 
 this was a typic markup ; spi toy were still hard to find and sold most through dubious catalog , just as pornographi had been in earlier day . 
 they are a much harder audienc than a group of stranger , `` edward said . 
 it 's import to follow your instinct and stand your ground , she say , `` and that 's realli hard to do when you re on your own and you realli do n't have anyon to fight the fight with you . 
 medic expert said the water cutoff will make it harder for peopl to wash and cook food proper . 
 but in the human sens , it is hard to imagin that the most inept of the old manag could have done a wors job of manag chang than the execut of g.e. , capit citi and larri tisch did . 
 mayb make lot of movi with femal hero would chang it , but it 's so hard to figur out in what context a woman would be a hero . 
 the hardest part of sell the wide-rang plan will be to `` get peopl to think of this as a nine-year crusad '' instead of a quick-fix program , he said . 
 farewel to a local hero -- it 's hard to think of a bay area broadcast who put more back into his communiti than bob haulman , who die earli wednesday of a heart attack at age 49 . 
 but , then , all that data you have collect becom veri hard to work with. '' 
 `` look for a job is veri hard without english. '' 
 i like to write about what we the public perceiv about an issu as oppos to often hard-to-understand fact . 
 in fact , if one look close , daytim napper are not hard to find . 
 you marri , you want to have thing in common '' , a girl said , `` and it 's hard when you do n't marri someon with your own background '' . 
 `` the patriot feel is hard to describ . 
 and the part would be hard to trace on the world market , he ad : `` i ca n't think of ani individu , singl item that if they import that , watch em. '' 
 the state 's loom budget shortfal elimin ani chanc of a bailout from sacramento , leav educ leader with three hard choic : rais fee , cut faculti and staff , or close door to qualifi student . 
 just as u.s. execut are learn the valu of the european accent in the execut suit and the board room , they may find it harder -- but potenti more lucrat -- to woo them . 
 `` it 's hard to figur out if a guy is give you his all if he 's on a guarante as oppos to a commiss , `` hitchcock said . 
 but if fri ' appear may not seem all that youth to some , it would be hard to argu that the doctor doe not think in much younger term . 
 sever year ago , when almost all load fund charg 8.5 percent of the initi invest to get in , that statement was harder to justifi . 
 `` it is hard to come to this place tonight and not be abl to go into the clubhous and put on a uniform and throw backdoor slider and get peopl out . 
 catcher and third basemen are hard to get . 
 they were so light he had a hard time keep them on the plate . 
 ome area ; abort are becom increas hard to get in rural area and other part of the countri as physician shi away from the procedur becaus of harass , peer pressur and lack of train , an abortion-right group announc in chicago . 
 prank ( you re welcom ) -- it 's harder to fool the folk at sun technolog in mountain view after success year of april fool ' day joke , so prankster peter van der linden ( his new book , `` the second offici handbook of practic joke , `` just hit the store from signet ) struck earli this year . 
 we have a hard enough time get peopl just to fall to earth without ani gimmicks. '' 
 it would be hard to do a show on inner-c black poverti without portray and provok anger , and anger is one emot network tv can not use . 
 i 'm a hard match . 
 among the angri men is joann 's husband , matt ( peter coyot ) , who 's have a hard time make a live and has just had to sell off the last chunk of his inherit ranch properti to a famili name martinez . 
 it would have been veri hard to play dave henderson in center field tonight. '' 
 ( check ) beet -- it 's hard to justifi the troubl of cook fresh beet when can beet are so consist good . 
 also , gari 's video librari , with locat at 1328 w. el camino real , mountain view ( 415 ) 965-1050 and 1000 fremont ave. , los alto ( 415 ) 941-3171 , has success in locat and order hard-to-find videotap . 
 it 's hard not to get caught up in the plight of the girl and root for her . 
 nelson , of high tech gay , said , `` we in california will have to fight that much harder now . 
 that mean that it 's much harder for women to avoid be victim . 
 housebreak error seem harder to correct . 
 they say a shortag of child care center make it hard for mother to hold down career . 
 it 's just that it 's hard enough to find a barber you re comfort with back home , where the equip is a littl more modern , the polic are less impos , and it 's the citizen who carri the machin gun . 
 his brother , willi , who live in scotland , told him over the radio , `` hope your health is good , and i know it is hard but keep your spirit up as thing seem to be look a lot better for you. '' 
 it was hard to see the agreement to drop labor protect as anyth less than a disappoint for germani , franc , itali and other advoc of a federal-typ union of the 12-nation trade bloc . 
 but it would be hard to claim that kockelman 's academ and vocat path were not influenc by her famili background : her father , william , is an earth servic applic planner with the u.s. geolog survey in menlo park ; her older sister , anni , train guid dog for the blind ; her older brother , john and peter , oper a bunge cord jump busi ; and her younger brother , paul , is attend uc-santa cruz . 
 those who live through the depress often find it especi hard to discard belong , sinc they recal a time when old cloth or other tangibl were great need , winston say . 
 `` it 's hard to cut thing peopl want , `` councilman ron andersen said of the budget the council must adopt by juli 1 . 
 when forc upriv , where the water has less surfac , greater depth and a stronger current , the smelt have a harder time swim and find enough food . 
 `` bart is aw hard to deal with , `` campbel said . 
 is now harder to assum telepathi as a basi for the statements- though research still doe not know how far afield ~esp can rang . 
 `` it 's hard to defens home run , `` manag roger craig said . 
 mason said that omiss are harder to detect , but fund transfer and commingl should have been notic by the truste . 
 jazz ; shirley horn ; `` you wo n't forget me '' ; ( verve/polygram ; all format ) ; ( star ) ( star ) ( star ) ; it 's hard to believ , listen to this album and her previous work , that shirley horn remain larg unknown to the general public and even segment of the jazz communiti . 
 sambo chhun , whose two-year tour end last may , found it hard to see posit . 
 no suggest of anyth happen -- which is whi it 's hard to believ these alleg , which is whi it 's hard to disbeliev these allegations. '' 
 `` it 's easier to tell them they re go to the minor and harder to tell them they ve been releas , `` rosen said . 
 it is hard to build consist when player come and go that fast . 
 `` i learn more this way becaus now i know it was realli hard then , `` she said . 
 or if you will save just a few ; dollar on your month mortgag payment by refinanc , the refin cost are hard justifi . 
 `` it 's just hard be a particip , be involv with it and know the gut-wrench thing you re go through and three day of rain ( befor game 6 in 75 ) , to think that this is better. '' 
 it 's not that you ca n't call us anytim , but when we re busi put out a newspap , we can be hard to reach . 
 the program arriv set for washington , but it 's not hard to chang it to make where you are the center of the univers . 
 on one car : `` life is hard , then you die. '' 
 it will actual be harder to make field goal in colleg now becaus the hash mark are wider than in the pros , mean kicker will be forc to kick from sharper angl . 
 it 's mighti hard to make him work saturday , when all the boy is have holiday , but he hate work more than he hate anyth els , and i ve got to do some of my duti by him , or i ll be the ruinat of the child . 
 `` after 3 : 30 p.m. , it 's hard to find a seat in here , `` said ozubko . 
 while his method for rais bird have been copi , he has an advantag that will be veri hard to overcom : two decad of care breed that have produc veri special strain of bird . 
 this is hard to admit , but i realli could n't find a major fault here . 
 ( box ) splittin ' pea is so rich and creami it 's hard to believ it has no meat stock or dairi product and no fat -- technic , it has less than one gram , which qualifi as `` fat-free. '' 
 it 's harder to come up with a complet packag that solv some real problem -- and deliv the whole thing at onc . 
 i did n't , and it was twice as hard when i went back . 
 in the short span of one generat , we have convinc ourselv that rais children is hard . 
 and , it 's hard to realli dislik a club that has a model biplan pilot by gumbi and pokey . 
 he 's 36 for 43 in save situat this season , and eckersley find it hard to reconcil himself with the occasion failur . 
 japanes view american as a swagger mix of will ignor and wanton sloth saddl with a nostalg long for a bygon age , yet redeem by a raw and unhesit energi har to a certain basic good that 's hard to resist even when it drive us to excess . 
 but chuck gari , princip of milpita high , had a hard time understand the 3-2 vote . 
 it 's hard to pitch good when you re not pitch a lot . 
 seem ccm , the nhl 's jersey manufactur , has been have a hard time produc the pacif teal shade , and matt levin , the team 's execut vice presid in charg of busi oper , said jersey probabl wo n't becom avail for sale until late may . 
 it 's harder to publish a romanc novel now than a mysteri . 
 mexico 's clint anderson offer a resolut to chang the senat 's notori rule 22 to allow three-fifth of the senat present and vote to cut off debat , instead of the current hard-to-get two-third . 
 there are mani way of be hard to understand . 
 it is hard to feel sorri for brown and his boy , the democrat , or for the republican , either . 
 they have a hard time adjust to me. '' 
 `` with all the uncertainti , it 's hard to know where the cost of water is go to go , `` said ronald etheridg , senior facil manag for nation semiconductor corp. in santa clara . 
 becaus of all the homophobia , it is hard to be open and meet guy in an environ that is n't sexual charg or that surviv on the sell of liquor . 
 in fact , i have n't been 15 for so long that i sometim have a hard time recogn today 's 15-year-old as member of the same speci . 
 it also would make it harder for the iraqi to kill him , becaus they would have to explain later . 
 job are hard to find , etc . 
 do n't you feel kind of sorri for the poor work girl who , dog-tir after a hard night of patrol her dismal beat , has to go a half-mil out of her way to get home ? 
 `` one of the reason it was so hard to accept was that it had been done in the context of yoga . 
 you have so much money , and you have to make some hard choices. '' 
 one of my main concern about these sign is that it make it so hard for a first-class organ to make plan for the futur . 
 the may race may also come down to the question of how hard it would be to fill corazon aquino 's shoe . 
 `` it can happen to anybodi , and that is the hardest part to get into my head. '' 
 i learn the hard way , and i ll never make that mistak again . 
 this is a warmup exercis in which i stand straight with feet spread and lift my arm over my head as though i am stretch for the sky -- or pick fruit off the tree or prune the hard-to-reach branch or ani one of a number of other garden job . 
 `` and becaus quarterback are so hard to find , he may end up be the first player drafted. '' 
 at 1 : 30 in the afternoon , howev , there 's plenti of all three , as the unfortun actor of `` the tempest '' discov the hard way this week . 
 sometim it 's hard for them to discov relev in what they re studi , `` seymour said . 
 yet it 's hard to imagin that peopl are go to start pull away en mass from the stock market this fall , even with price near record height . 
 even the hard-to-pleas social observ and econom gadfli michael m. thoma is rave , say it is `` the greatest thing i have ever read about wall street. '' 
 but should a hard winter bring mob into the street , or an assassin or coup sudden remov either man , bush could have to order those b-52s back on 15-minut alert . 
 `` it 's harder now to take the kid to class with me becaus they re older and they need their own activ , `` she said . 
 if you still have a soft spot in your heart for stack 's old `` the untouch '' seri , this may be hard to resist . 
 `` this is so hard for me , `` sob his owner . 
 while gate ' respons might be believ , what 's harder to believ is that the precondit for such savageri will chang without an end to the secreci that surround how most peac offic ' depart deal with excess . 
 and now , sinc the giant ' quarterback is vanilla nice , a bland guy name jeff hostetl who a month ago was known as an averag backup perform , that make it doubli hard to choos them . 
 `` if the legislatur doe n't act on some of these propos , we could be back again this time next year with some veri , veri hard decis to make , `` santa clara counti supervisor rod diridon , an air district board member , said , refer to the gas tax , a higher bridg toll and other measur . 
 a cut abov , and just abov , the supermarket tabloid , and equal hard to resist . 
 have gone to war to enforc unit nation resolut against iraq , the unit state find it hard to avoid press to implement the u.n. resolut pertain to israel that it support . 
 `` it 's been veri hard to get peopl to listen , `` the soft-spoken professor of polit economi said in a recent interview . 
 today , it is hard for american to use the word `` glori '' without snicker . 
 odd that one man should be abl to block such a critic effort , but the negat alway seem to win when a posit is hard to prove . 
 `` for about seven of those 15 year i had a hard time let go of sonni and cher . 
 ( box ) make it harder for prison to make a second feder appeal of their convict . 
 hartford center john cullen know in his heart he 's worth the four-year , $ 4 million contract he sign with the whaler , but his mind find it hard to comprehend . 
 miss manner hope this will be a long time from now , as grandpar are harder to come by than desk . 
 `` but it 's hard to get rep away from steve young at this point . 
 pringl and natoli thought that the bad hemingway contest was too hard , so they made their someth anyon can enter . 
 when you ve grown up on the premis of a wal-mart without secur , it 's a hard habit to break . 
 but the offer to work at a well-establish museum was hard to pass up , `` he say . 
 today it appear to be harder to find , which tell us someth signific about how far we have come and about how far we have yet to go . 
 doe n't seem that hard , doe it ? 
 first , the loan are hard to find . 
 `` it 's hard to say in word how proud i am of you , `` schwarzkopf told about 1 , 700 member of the armi 's vii corp at a ceremoni befor they head back to fort hood , texa ; fort riley , kan . 
 it grew into a full-tim occup , and last hurrah , the bookstor that he and his wife own in williamsport , pa. , special in assassin book , which are often hard to find . 
 if you can answer that question - and it 's not a veri hard one - you will be abl to answer the question - 
 `` it 's hard to describ it becaus it was so nerve-rack , `` say kimber , `` but i 'm go to tri and tell my grandchildren . 
 but everyth is hard to achieve. '' 
 do n't call dougla coupland the voic of his generat -- although with everi newspap and televis interview , everi magazin stori , everi laudatori book review , it 's go to be a hard label to avoid . 
 when one is plan a coup , it 's hard to know what the reaction of the popul will be . 
 `` it 's hard , becaus they ask me to do stuff i ve never done. '' 
 it 's hard to measur a deterr . 
 that 's the hardest part of what we do -- tri to be funni and spontan and have a good time at nobodi els 's expens . 
 they are for preserv some semblanc of econom uniti among the territori of the soviet empir , and they say it is hard for them to believ that most of the republ will choos otherwis . 
 but i would tell them how hard this busi is and how import real talent is . 
 sinc mani homeown transfer within their region or state would be hit by the new 200-mile requir , larg employ say donnelli 's bill will make it much harder to persuad worker to accept reloc . 
 consum express more concern about unemploy , with 38.6 percent of those survey say job are hard to get , up from april 's 35.5 percent . 
 these thing are n't ani harder to do than instal low-flow shower head . 
 it 's hard to get convict for crime that are judg on motiv . 
 and support and foe of the judg , as well as support and foe of abort , all expect the suprem court to make it harder to get abort sometim in the next few year . 
 and then she was gone , `` play a self-involv businessman who learn , the hard way , how to care for other . 
 the situat is an excel exampl of durkheim 's anomi , social disorgan at all level - `` norm '' are hard or imposs to find and the psychologist can not , for long , hold mani preconcept . 
 `` it is hard to keep it hip and artsi and keep out the bad element at the same time , `` admit ken stock . 
 `` i 'm sorri that debbi did n't win , but in a sens it 's good i do n't have to play her becaus we re teammat and it 's hard to play a friend , `` birch said . 
 a lot of the student found it hard to concentr in class when they re hungri . 
 it 's like a lot of olymp sport you ve heard about -- more popular in europ than it is here , no way to get rich in it , harder to play than it look -- but it look like noth you ve ever seen . 
 `` i know how hard it is for a person to be gay becaus societi make it so difficult for them. '' 
 so mani thing were go on the night anita hill came out of ivori tower seclus last weekend , it was hard to sort them all out . 
 `` it was the hardest year of my life , `` killberg say . 
 `` here in the state , rock station do n't like music that 's black , and black station have a hard time with rock , `` hutchenc say . 
 `` if i had n't known , i would have thought the babi die within a coupl of month , `` linda said , `` but the mother call me close to the anniversari death of the babi , which is often a hard time. '' 
 but there are some problem : `` it was hard , go through puberti on tv , becaus i did n't have the greatest skin in the world , and what made it wors was i knew there would be 20 million televis viewer look for zit . 
 `` onc you start do it , it 's realli hard for you to go into a depart store and pay full price for thing , `` tomaso said . 
 `` we re have a hard time decid what our top project are go to be. '' 
 i even thought he might invit me to dinner on a sunni sunday , and help me plenti to the nice cabin fare , as know how distast the salt beef and pork , and hard biscuit of the forecastl must at first be to a boy like me , who had alway live ashor , and at home . 
 tough time ; the mercer survey reveal some step compani are take to deal with harder econom time . 
 hamper by a hard-to-explain shortag of elder tenant , the palomar inn , santa cruz 's largest earthquak recoveri project to date , is onli half full after five month of oper . 
 `` i believ pitcher have a right to pitch insid , but i have a hard time believ he doe n't have enough control that he ca n't pitch insid without hit somebodi in the head , `` said william , who consid himself lucki to escap with onli a headach . 
 even so , it is not hard to concoct a fatten meal . 
 `` it 's not hard to find volunt , `` she say . 
 they are a littl hard to use , howev , when the car 's transmiss is all the way forward in park . 
 like them , they were also glu to televis set , wonder about the clash of testimoni of two intens , proud american , and in the end find hill 's stori harder to believ . 
 `` it was frighten and depress becaus it was hard to tell from the one-sid news account what was realli go on. '' 
 but the hard question about effici and competit wo n't be answer until the hand is dealt and play . 
 it is hard to pass by anyon in need and not feel guilti . 
 perhap shift the genr to anoth era and refus to call it a soap will help , but , while `` homefront '' is sure to draw a broader audienc , it 's hard to see it draw a much bigger one than `` thirtysometh , `` whose overal nielsen number were never veri impress . 
 but onc a film get off the ground and the budget is reason , it 's hard not to make a profit , said law , becaus of `` the greater role europ is playing. '' 
 make canseco 's plea even harder to swallow is his penchant for strike out , in which case it doe n't matter where the fenc are . 
 `` these are all hard decis to make , `` said councilman angelo frosolon . 
 `` noth against salley , `` forward mark aguirr said , `` but if he get $ 3 million , it 's go to be hard for me to accept. '' 
 if a new station were built , citi offici say they would have a hard time fund the engin and truck compani to staff it . 
 to california 's 2.1 million welfar famili , the legislatur has this messag : your struggl to surviv just got harder . 
 walsh : it 's hard to differenti one from the other . 
 museum custom are negoti tougher deal , and loan for the unusu busi ventur are harder than ever to get , dinam presid and chief execut chris may said . 
 `` i like it becaus it 's hard , so it 's a challeng , `` said kevin , a third-grad who clinch first place by win five straight game at the march 9 competit . 
 the hardest ham to match with wine are the honey-bak ham . 
 it has been hard to separ fact and fiction on this staff . 
 mesa said , `` it was a veri hard play . 
 life is alway hard for the southern , who regular walk great distanc to find food for themselv and their livestock . 
 although some might find an earli onslaught hard to stomach , retail expert agre it has advantag for consum . 
 he declin to name ani such stock , but it is not hard to spot ralli among stock that had been given up for dead . 
 `` it 's veri hard for us when the ground shake , `` said vilma david , 32 . 
 `` it 's hard to live with right now , when you know that machin could save someon 's life. '' 
 now that i have children of my own , i find it hard to understand whi a mother would sacrific a daughter for a lowlif man like that , but i know it doe happen . 
 it was a big lesson , a hard lesson , but we need to learn it. ' -- anna petrovna fedorova , 68 , former communist parti member in moscow ; . 
 some hard choic had to be made , and gov. engler decid the money avail should go to famili and children as much as possible. '' 
 alber find that while valu often is appar , mani investor have a harder time identifi or believ in a long-term earn trend . 
 it 's just harder to have public health intervent to modifi those. '' 
 it look so routin , so familiar , even after five consecut loss , that a 's manag toni la russa muse , `` it did n't look like it was all that hard to do . 
 or , you can take a more cynic tack and argu that this is stone 's clever way of appeal to today 's youth audienc , which , if press , would have a hard time tell jim morrison from morri the cat . 
 of cours , those earli dude are a hard act to follow . 
 baker said atwat 's critic and even friend would find it hard to believ the `` self-profess bad boy '' was now with the angel . 
 `` fire in there are go to be particular hot , hard to put out , `` he said . 
 the new bill have two near invis featur that will make life much harder for forger . 
 director-writer-produc and co-star matti rich close with the remind `` first thing learn are the hardest to forget . 
 by the same token , it 's hard to imagin interest rate rise soon , with the global economi slow mark . 
 imparti in question ; the committe leader say they onli want to answer wrench nation question , yet it would be hard to devis a panel less imparti toward vietnam to direct the $ 1.9 million investig . 
 doe etiquett have a hard time get it act togeth in the morn ? 
 adult are harder to work with than children . 
 `` it 's realli hard to tell how good anybodi is right now , `` archbishop mitti coach marti procaccio said . 
 the attorney general order feder prosecutor to `` target the most violent offend in each communiti and put them away for hard time in feder prisons. '' 
 intellig , compos , unflapp , religi and attract , she testifi to her sexual harass by clarenc thoma and even to her own inadequaci , agre that it had taken her too long to come forward , that it was hard to understand whi she had kept in touch . 
 offic acknowledg that the fate of 20 to 25 other was harder to guess -- the one whose home were reduc to ash and rubbl , where the fire was so intens that it cremat it victim . 
 goal : `` mainten , which is the hardest part of all , now , becaus there are no more challeng -- like weigh-in and offic visit . 
 `` it 's hard to have a barbecu on crush gravel or play softbal in a cactus garden. '' 
 `` that 's hard for me to answer , `` moss said . 
 it 's hard to imagin wors hous in the unit state . 
 `` it would not be hard at all '' to counter ani iraqi threat , should one appear , said the sourc , who spoke on condit of anonym . 
 i want to show that it is not so hard . 
 `` it 's hard to critic gannett , `` said ben bagdikian , former dean of the univers of california , berkeley journal school . 
 and it is becom harder for consum to escap electron scrutini . 
 but face it : those gray squirrel are hard to resist . 
 the attorney who defend the counti knew that their difficult case had been made even harder by the anti-polic atmospher prevail here in the wake of the march 3 beat of king . 
 he 's go to be hard to live with now . 
 is hard for me to know how i feel about lauro di bosi . 
 `` the hardest part of our schedul is come up , `` said coach terri malley , who joke ad , `` i 'm tri to get my contract renegoti as soon as possible. '' 
 a rapid chang societi congreg will run into difficulti repeat , sinc such nice balanc of econom integr are hard to sustain in the metropoli for more than a singl generat . 
 still , it is hard not to imagin that some of debt collect 's appeal stem from the job 's obvious abil to intimid . 
 it is much harder to get data on the cost of treat hiv infect without aid , she said . 
 a it 's hard to say what exact your bathroom can accommod , sinc i do n't know it exact dimens . 
 print `` not veri hard at all. '' 
 big west confer softbal oppon might have a hard time believ that san jose state 's noleana woodard is play at 85 percent effici . 
 ( check ) it 's hard to know some thing becaus the peopl who are do them -- believ it or not -- actual tri to keep them secret . 
 eggbeat are hard to find , also retir unjust . 
 rais in an unpreced number of single-par or latchkey household , post-boom learn to take care of themselv and have a hard time trust other . 
 `` it 's been hard to look at mo the last year or so and realiz this is the same big , tall , energy-fil dynamo he realli was , `` said rep. john j. rhode iii , r-ariz . 
 `` i would ask them if it hard for them to be hispan there , with so veri few peopl of the same race. '' 
 it 's harder to refus someon money if you ca n't look straight ahead and keep on walk . 
 it 's hard to blame the state . 
 it 's hard to rememb so far back , but i 'm pretti sure that in the first grade i had never heard the word `` sex. '' 
 still , with one farm aim to market 100 , 000 pound of sturgeon each month , and other -- includ tini morgan hill aquafarm -- eye expans , it 's not hard to imagin a day in the far , far futur when sturgeon may actual be commonplac -- and as love as the pond-rais carp prais by czechoslovakian writer ota pavel . 
 on this basi alon , the choic of who is lie is not hard to make . 
 there are two dessert , but it would be hard to convinc me to order the crepe ( $ 1.95 for one up to $ 5.25 for three ) after have sampl the bread pud ( $ 2.45 ) . 
 it would have been hard to say just what the frys were cling to with such tenac , life in the auster hous seem so joyless , it barren so littl differ from that of that `` fine and privat place '' , the grave . 
 sort out enemi and friend from abov a swirl battlefield is one of the hardest task close-air-support pilot face , said capt. john mill , an a-10 pilot . 
 `` it 's hard for me to imagin what has changed. '' 
 as if tri to win a tripl crown and most valuabl player award were not hard enough , play with a sore knee down the stretch would make it virtual imposs . 
 but special effect do n't have to be especi hard . 
 `` it 's hard to rememb when the indian face such danger , `` eduardo franklin , a spokesman for the govern 's nation indian council , said in rio de janiero . 
 but today the gold is harder to get out , and low world price combin with higher cost of mine have thin the rank of prospector . 
 `` it was veri hard at time , becaus i had been refer to as a child wonder . 
 medea , in a tower rage about the marriag of her lover , jason , to a local princess , storm and steam around the stage , make dire nois , rend her garment and unperm her hair ( the hard way , by pull it out ) . 
 when he said slow danc , she ask , `` is n't that hard ? '' 
 `` it is fair to say that it is get harder to collect this kind of data , `` he say . 
 the guerrilla natur of the conflict made it hard for soldier to distinguish friend from foe . 
 diana bond , chairman of the los gato casa chapter , said present the communiti with specif inform make it hard to ignor or deni the problem . 
 it 's hard to measur in dollar the valu of a matur oak , mapl or other tree shelter your hous from the summer sun , but it 's definit an asset . 
 i ca n't see rank them ahead of kareem abdul-jabbar 's team , and it 's hard to rate them ahead of bill russel 's usf team . 
 the british travel associ , which doe excel work in take care of all foreign who want to have a good time here and studi what is pompous call `` the british way of life , '' have a hard time on their hand . 
 `` it 's hard to find mexican food in tokyo , `` sanchez told a villa montalvo audienc . 
 normal , you 'd have a hard time get a plane reserv to hawaii or a decent room in one of the popular resort . 
 and it 's definit hard to imagin the affabl stewart not talk , especi sinc , in an interview with the new york time , he had just finish critic the high salari given to what he term `` mediocr player '' in the major leagu . 
 `` it 's hard to tell what we re look for , `` said mari vernieu , a cast associ who ran a video camera . 
 and exercis , in particular , can probabl afford an occasion sin without jeopard their hard-won health benefit . 
 that is a donat hard to match . 
 this be so , it 's hard to believ that , accord to recent poll , mani of us freedom-lov american -- the most freedom-lov of all peopl in this world -- would actual opt for more militari censorship of the alreadi heavily-restrict gulf war news that come our way . 
 long-term exposur to this level of pollut may acceler a declin in lung capac , make it harder to breath fulli . 
 `` it 's hard to tell the landlord , 'i ll keep you in mind for the future. ' `` ; yet peopl caught up in the entrepreneuri spirit are often unrealist , he said , and push ahead with vagu assur such as , `` we ll have to get togeth ; i ll be refer peopl to you. '' 
 but roman utter everi line with the same fervor and forc , and it 's hard to tell whether she 's angri , ambiti , agreeabl , altruist or all of the abov . 
 fairi tale success ; `` the joy luck club '' was hard to ignor when it was publish in 1988 . 
 as good as their other cake are , and i ve had occas to sampl the chocolate-orange-walnut cake and the sherri walnut cake , the trifl here is hard to pass up . 
 the town has a varieti of rate base on flatland area and hard-to-serv area , but the most common servic is for two can per household , which will go from $ 10.30 to $ 11.72 per month . 
 the third element , and perhap the hardest , would be the softwar that could manag the comput . 
 eas of clean is also a consider , especi for peopl who have a two-stori hous or window that are hard to reach . 
 the club rais $ 10 , 000 last year , and that amount will be hard to attain and spread around to more than 14 chariti this year . 
 it 's a small step that make it harder for a crimin or a crazi to get hold of a dead weapon . 
 `` it 's hard to believ . 
 he has n't alway been success in this direct , though , and he has some stori to tell about his earli day in showbusi that are hard to believ , compar with his present-day success . 
 long said that it will be hard to know when his job is done , which is whi the island will be monitor for pig for two or three year . 
 well , it may be hard to disguis junk as health food . 
 the danger to the prison guard argument -- anoth vasquez reason cite by schnack in his decis -- is a littl harder to ignor , but not much . 
 it may be hard to do , but we are to do it . 
 moreov , polit strife , and the shortsighted of govern , is often at the root of problem , and govern are hard to control . 
 in fact , some of the nordiqu have a hard time hide the frustrat in their voic when they talk about lindro , the high tout no. 1 draft pick who refus to play in quebec and return to his junior team befor join the canadian olymp team recent . 
 it will be hard to stop at a singl pair . 
 david steinman has written a book about pesticid and chemic in food and it 's hard to keep from exclaim at the recept it has gotten . 
 what 's on their mind ; here are some of the find of a famili survey conduct by the nation commiss on children : ; ( box ) 88 percent of all adult think it 's harder be a parent today than it use to be . 
 `` in the u.s. it is veri hard to climb up the ladder step by step . 
 lagera want you vet to attend , but he said he 's have a hard time locat you . 
 nation secur advis brent scowcroft caution : `` it 's a lot harder to cooper in peac ventur than it is in prosecut a war. '' 
 `` they often have troubl refus to extend credit becaus it 's hard to take off the person hat and put on the busi one. '' 
 `` it 's hard to predict , but we could go into octob befor they re all gone , `` she said . 
 the hardest part of calcul the cost of fight a war is that it requir make adjust for the cost of not fight . 
 yet it is hard to believ the futur is go to be quit like the past , for saddam 's govern clear face challeng that were not there befor . 
 and it 's as hard to critic him as it would be for an art student to walk out of the louvr and complain that da vinci should have use brighter color or given the ladi a wider smile . 
 the timecap bottl seem bulki at first sight , but that might be an advantag : it 's harder to misplac than a small , slim contain . 
 and with all the fix pad the flavor of the mclean , it 's harder to tell you re not eat 100 percent beef . 
 she has fork over $ 8 million `` in cash '' for a bel-air shelter that will make it harder for news hawk to spi her out . 
 david ogden stier make a valiant effort to bring the town 's mayor to life , but often is hard to deciph becaus of an aggress southern accent and blusteri tone . 
 `` i think it was hard for the saint to concentr , `` tackl steve wallac said , happi the superdome-dwel could get a tast of their own medicin . 
 i ve help her quit a bit , but i 'm divorc and have a hard time support myself . 
 it is especi hard when the survivor has a spous or child involv . 
 `` it 's hard to get doctor to say definit that carri school book can caus these problem , but they ll say it 's like , `` crowley said . 
 whether mainstream , new age , goddess-ori ( a point of view express a female- and earth-cent style of worship rather than a specif bodi of liturgi ) or wiccan ( a main british isl pagan name from the old english word for witch ) , today 's celebr are as vari as they are hard to count . 
 sometim it 's hard to choos . 
 not onli is land hard to find , but also wild game popul are declin becaus of loss of habitat , `` said tom ebert , a partner in a construct compani , who want to build the sport clay rang . 
 geraldo rivera hit a new low last week , but it 's hard to say what was most appal about it . 
 it is hard for me to figur out the point of go on , if saddam hussein is actual will to pull out of kuwait without a land war . 
 we tri to keep in touch with our children , but it is hard . 
 -- crush in california ; dear calif. -- you have everi right to feel betray and angri , but do n't let foolish pride catapult you into a decis that will be `` pain , expens and hard on the kids. '' 
 jonsen forese thousand of sick patient come to the state to seek aid in die , and a backlash from conserv state that will make it harder to end a life . 
 much of the materi is hard to come by and is n't avail in some british librari , `` pocock said . 
 correct depart spokesman tip kindel said the drug -- which are use to control bizarr behavior -- inhibit the bodi 's abil to perspir , make it harder for the bodi 's cool mechan to work . 
 young adult in the survey , age 18 to 29 , report have a particular hard time . 
 john devitt say he learn the hard way that some larg corpor will do anyth for a buck . 
 `` but i came back and that 's hard , `` she add . 
 with a wingspan no bigger than your palm and a shrill , drawn-out call often compar to the plaintiv mew of a kitten , the gnatcatch is a bird hard to dislik . 
 it sound and look hard to do but it realli is n't , and the success rate is veri high . 
 `` we had a rapid buildup in teacher ' salari becaus teacher were hard to get and becaus that was the polit will , `` said stanford 's kirst . 
 with peopl will to pay $ 200 a week to sleep on a cot in a closet , it 's hard to resist the temptat to put a partit down the middl of a garag , cut two littl door in the garag door , move children into the master bedroom with you , put a famili of lettuc worker in each garag cubicl , a coupl under a tarp by the shed out back , eight men in bunk in each newli vacant room , and one or two camper in the driveway or on the sidewalk and lawn out front . 
 `` if you do n't laugh at some of it , it 's go to be that much harder for you , `` maintain the newark author , whose book `` the sudden singl mother 's surviv book '' has just been publish by mill & sanderson , bedford , mass . 
 unfortun , the display is hard to read , the batteri do n't last long enough , the processor is about to be obsolet ( new machin introduc last month have faster processor or processor that extend batteri life ) , and the whole thing weigh too much . 
 `` it 's hard to tell ani actor , `` say landi . 
 in such circumst it would find it hard , and perhap , inde , imposs , to absorb within a reason time all the young peopl who had thus been thrown , at one swoop , so to speak , on to the labour market . 
 then she end her letter with a kind plea for understand on both side : `` i know how hard it is for the peopl who make the lunch , but just think of what we have to go through . . . `` she wrote . 
 `` it 's hard to believ the pendulum can swing even wider for box , `` kevin monaghan , nbc 's box coordin , said tuesday , `` but appar it can when you have a bizarr , homophob press confer conduct by mike tyson. '' 
 as a high school freshman in fallbrook , then a rural farm town north of san diego , trimbl decid he would attend the california institut of technolog becaus `` i thought it was the hardest school in the countri to get into. '' 
 degener , meanwhil , prove harder to peg . 
 but after the summer harvest they brought from the countrysid run out , it will be harder . 
 worst fashion disast award , present : although it would be hard to singl out one coutur calam in the crowd that includ hundr of women sport rhinestone-and-spandex number that would make a tenderloin hooker blush , hay win this categori too -- for a black spangl baby-dol outfit offset with a crucifix big enough to pound nail . 
 but it 's hard to say , `` said fred herman , palo alto 's chief build offici . 
 some day it 's hard to stay cool while listen to angri complaint . 
 ifyou re interest ; smith ask peopl who want to sign to send at least 10 signatur ( it 's hard to append just one ) to : devon smith , r.d. 2 , robot lane , wampum , pa. 16157 . 
 u.s. busi are find credit harder to get and more cost as banker continu to tighten their lend standard . 
 but that 's hard to believ when they tell you how she hound her husband . 
 after complaint from some toronto player that he had been hard to get along with , bell so far has fit in well in the cub ' clubhous . 
 `` it 's hard to see where the upturn is , `` said stephen balog , associ director of research at shearson lehman brother inc . 
 `` my mother use to give me a realli hard time about freddi , `` she say . 
 left guard guy mcintyr thought pari ' lengthi condit hiatus made it hard for him to catch up to his teammat . 
 to do that , they need to find out what 's happen now -- and that 's the hard part . e 
 `` this ( elbow ) injuri has been easier to take in some way than the back problem , but harder in other way , `` montana said last week in one of his final pre-surgeri interview . 
 `` i ve had to take a compromis and accept it , `` he said , `` but sometim it 's hard to take. '' 
 made with four egg each , the omelet are so huge and hard to finish . 
 the seat are firm and comfort , if slight hard to adjust . 
 becaus of the recent runup in stock price , good valu have becom much harder to find . 
 stick to this vow turn out to be harder than he thought . 
 help is hard to come by in the organ . 
 `` in everi crisi , civil liberti are chip away at and lost , and they re veri hard to get back , `` said rep. don edward , d-san jose . 
 govern produc paperwork like mcdonald cook hamburg -- both in number hard to comprehend . 
 `` unless they show me someth legal say i have to leav , i 'm go to give them a veri hard time , `` said chris miller of durham . 
 metz has so mani build full of rooster , he has a hard time keep track . 
 if there was a game saturday , it 's hard to say whether he could play or not . 
 elimin small patch of grass in place where it 's hard to mow . 
 smith said he was have a hard time earn respect as a young , off-campus coach who care about his player ' potenti as soccer player and as student . 
 the work of grown-up , make hard choic on issu such as educ , health care and econom growth , is be left undon . 
 a dead bodi is n't particular hard to face , certain not after you ve seen 15 , 000 of them . 
 here 's a qbasic program that ask and answer that question : print `` so how hard is it ? '' 
 `` it 's veri uncommon becaus case tend to be hard to value. '' 
 to just cut it off is kind of hard . 
 the aftermath of a devast fire is both the easiest and the hardest time to impos them . 
 la villa ; it 's hard to believ that dave and patti bertucelli have cram even more food into this small but arguabl best italian deli south of north beach . 
 although the palo alto medic foundat alreadi won citi council approv for it plan expans project , it is learn the hard way that the situat is anyth but settl . 
 it 's hard enough for some one like penni -- for all of us now direct -- to get where we ve gotten without that men s-club mental . 
 although x-ray is heavili research in japan , it is veri difficult to use to draw line on a chip becaus the x-ray particl are hard to control . 
 `` phone line are hard to get , and fax , which go through phone line , do n't alway work . 
 the imag from that tragic game are hard to shake : ; hank gather had just slam-dunk , give 22nd-rank loyola marymount a 25-13 lead over portland in a west coast confer tournament semifin game that never was complet . 
 fortun , the wheel bear are slow and it is hard to get go too fast , even on a slight downhil . 
 the cursor is often hard to find on small , dim lap-top screen . 
 the earli essay , although they reveal sympathi and goodwil , too often seem either to strain after polit correct or to laps into coy : `` but boyhood is hard to leav , and perhap one never doe , and while i tri to becom a man of the time , i ask you , o ladi , for neither absolut nor understand . 
 by 7 : 30 , we were readi to leav , just as the street were get so crowd it was hard to walk without bump into someon . 
 presid bush has until june 3 to make what he has call a hard decis on whether to renew low tariff rate for chines good . 
 her view is that lee is `` veri insecur about women and he 's probabl not veri comfort with white peopl , so that make it doubli hard for a white woman. '' 
 it 's hard to explain this war to a kid . 
 q what caus hard cold start in the morn ? 
 but when the critic come from a member of the kennedi clan , it 's harder to dismiss . 
 the detail are harder still to see . 
 of cours , this kind of behavior give hockey a bad name , but it 's hard to argu with success . 
 the self-publish book is as much a primer of hard-to-find santa cruz mountain histori as it is a stori about a transport landmark . 
 it is veri hard under our present system for peopl in small unit of local govern to get re-elect if they take the region interest into serious account . 
 from the desert storm button to the cloth eagl patch , john jarrett , head of the firm , said they ve have had a hard time keep anyth in stock . 
 `` anyon who has seen my film would have a hard time attack me as a person who doe n't enjoy god 's green earth. '' 
 so whi is it so hard to get your own money out of the plan ? 
 `` it 's hard to tell in the crystal ball who will get the most mileag out of this polit , `` weir said of seymour 's announc . 
 it may be hard to judg which are the most destruct in the long run . 
 `` i do n't realli mind sit around for a coupl of day , but if it rain until thursday it 's go to be pretti hard to handle. '' 
 that 's what made the struggl so much harder. '' 
 `` i have no doubt that meet the fiscal challeng of the current budget year will be harder than last year 's assign . 
 allemann is a hard fit , but she look like a fashion statement here in her red dress and rakish pancak hat . 
 `` it 's hard for you to be lead and do wrong . 
 and becaus so mani peopl are unemploy and stay home . . . it 's harder for them to conserve. '' 
 it is hard to make an impress with mere a week of exhibit game remain , but darnel cole seem determin to do so monday afternoon . 
 the unit state learn -- the hard way -- the danger of cozi up to dictat when iraqi presid saddam hussein invad kuwait last august and flout nine year of allianc with the west . 
 the problem was not in the food but in our select , i think : a fire-pot demand attent and is hard to see , or reach , around . 
 with trader trade for so mani differ object , and what with there be so mani uniqu and individu market theori and trade techniqu in use , and more come into use all the time , it is hard to imagin how ani particular theori or techniqu could acquir enough `` fan '' to invalid itself . 
 golfer ' vacat ; for folk who love to play golf on vacat , it 's hard to think of a better place to tee it up than on bermuda . 
 the santa clara unifi school district board tuesday approv a plan to stave off hard econom time and to handl an enrol boom of up to 8 , 000 student over the next decad by sell off or leas out some school site while reopen other that have long been close . 
 how much of this could have been handl more quiet on the ground is hard to say . 
 devincenzi figur the sum should n't be too hard to rais , given the pride level of italian-american here after last week 's seri of florentine-flavor festiv , top by that black-ti opera concert friday night at the st. joseph cathedr and the bash follow at fairmont plaza . 
 somehow it seem hard to pictur san jose 's men in teal get this aggress . 
 women who are rape by a man they know have a much harder time recov from the trauma than women rape by stranger , research is show . 
 `` whether this is a plateau , or just a temporari stop along the waysid , is hard to say , `` said dr. roy campbel , a lyme diseas specialist with the cdc . 
 so hard that when tambrand inc. advertis in the armi time , the navi time and the air forc time offer to send tampax direct to women soldier in the gulf , the compani receiv `` a coupl thousand request , `` said bruce garren , spokesman for the lake success , n.y. , compani . 
 now , the unit state postal inspect servic has produc a new money order that will make it harder to counterfeit money order with color copier or to alter the dollar amount on legitim one . 
 what 's even harder to believ is that a person as familiar with the consequ of addict as i could have fallen in love with him . 
 `` it contain and magnifi an explos , and it make it harder for the crew to escap . 
 whether it is just an aberr year -- an oop kind of misfir -- or a sign that serious problem lie ahead is hard to know for sure . 
 the owner say some of the incid were petti , but it 's hard to argu with the number . 
 it 's kind of hard when you ca n't afford to buy even shoe to wear when you walk to church . 
 but it 's hard to imagin even the most suggest youngster buy into this film 's phoni emot and hackney holiday spirit . 
 `` when state money is n't avail , it 's hard for the board to digest the idea of the newark annex , `` mciver said . 
 work is veri much akin to schnabel 's , but the sound on his decca disc is date , and you will have a hard time locat a copi of it . 
 `` it 's ideal for go after leav , but in addit it can pick up pine needl , hedg clip and it can get under bush where it 's hard to rake , `` say tom vasi , manag of product merchandis for echo . 
 veteran get their ident the hard way . 
 `` i have a hard time rememb that match , `` agassi said . 
 `` we were not so much concern that she would succeed as that the attempt would be so messi that . . . it would be hard for ani kind of moder center to keep power , `` a high-level u.s. intellig offici in manila in those year told me . 
 and after listen to the rest of the record , i find it hard to disagre . 
 they re also pay higher rate becaus bank have a harder time collect unpaid balanc and suffer greater loss on credit card than on secur loan . 
 industri develop leader find it hard to win local support for train unless a new industri is in sight and request it . 
 `` it was hard to be out there by myself. '' 
 `` to be honest with you , it 's hard to imagin . 
 `` it 's hard becaus you set a standard for yourself . 
 it has been a long hard struggl to make this the norm , and for parent and godpar to realiz it is such an import event , and that veri particular prepar is need . 
 `` the hardest part , i find , is mental , not physic . 
 depart director john christian told the council it is hard to find adequ locat for dog park : most site are either next to school , which school offici do not like , or they are too small , or the citi would have to give up other recreat facil to make way for dog . 
 `` be in the auction busi it 's hard to have a retail store , `` mccoy said . 
 tale circul about test audienc find suicid too hard to take and that the end had been chang . 
 it was much harder to find someon who would understand a thoma as well. '' 
 but it was hard to watch as mover recent empti the old home of it mani antiqu , includ the 25 floor-to-ceil clock albert has refurbish over the year . 
 it 's hard to watch . 
 it is a serious pest and sometim hard to kill . 
 for tire parent , deal with sleep problem can be harder than deal with infecti diseas . 
 it 's hard to deal with this becaus our system emphas small entrepreneuri busi . 
 from here , it look as if the negoti will be hard and veri , veri expens . 
 mayb the best thing that can be said about `` the 10 million dollar getaway '' is that it show how hard it is to make crime pay . 
 `` some of these athlet would have a hard time read a cereal box , `` duncan said in a document brought to light in today 's edit of the washington post . 
 `` i could studi at home , but the atmospher . . . it 's harder. '' 
 howev , payn said the compani had a hard time sell it product of `` our town , `` which was schedul to close this past friday . 
 and if ani u.s. newspap rail at their inhuman for do so , it is extraordinarili hard to find ani record of it . 
 in a move that could threaten the plan 400-mile bay area ridg trail , santa clara counti is consid make it harder for govern to take privat land for public hike , bike and ride trail . 
 `` it 's hard to explain what 's a rhino titl . 
 q in close turn , the power steer in my 1985 chrysler is hard to turn and feel bounci . 
 ask whether the endang speci act requir that the chinook salmon be spare that pain , even at the expens of other user , paff said , `` it make the balanc act harder , that 's for sure. '' 
 and the big studio are veri hard to deal with . 
 hard to believ ; `` i want to believ that the futur will be better than the present , but it 's veri hard to believ , `` said karina gebauer , a slender 18-year-old latvian studi fashion design . 
 we find it hard to duplic the feel of love that encompass us when the odor of french fri float through the air . 
 he is find out it 's hard to find an afford place to live . 
 i realiz it 's a hard road ahead , especi as a homeless , penniless , jobless person . 
 the redgrav sister recent star in a remak , but it 's aw hard to beat the origin . 
 the compani said that it was too hard to get coal out of the seam and that a downturn in the market had made the oper unprofit . 
 `` it 's hard to feel ani compass , `` nelson said . 
 that 's whi it 's hard to say who 's the best at lead off . 
 it 's hard to take the offens to task , becaus it has carri the a 's . 
 if we want a better nation life , we have to be will to look at the whole tedious pictur , ask the hard question , and give up the luxuri of depend on a surrog parent to make our decis for us . 
 `` it 's hard to distinguish between vinyl and good cover , but there are compani that deal with archiv materi , `` bauer said . 
 the former `` it 's a live '' star explain that , prior to product of the film in which she play de niro 's mistress , `` everybodi was tri to tell me what the real ' robert de niro was like -- do n't stand too close to him . . . he 's hard to get along with . ' 
 it ll be hard for him to ever forget one sequenc in the latter . 
 peopl just do n't want to give up someth they have such fond memori of , when so mani thing are so hard nowadays. '' 
 with salsa , afro-pop and brazilian music so popular , ethnic instrument are n't hard to find . 
 it 's not hard if you develop mix use at reason densiti . 
 it 's hard to predict how the crowd will react to new oiler like vincent damphouss , scott mellanbi , peter ing and troy mallett in the home open -- edmonton was wax , 9-2 , by archriv calgari on friday . 
 `` my first instinct was , oh , no , you ca n't do this , ' but onc you start make a movi about these issu , it 's hard to think of just do a movi , `` he say . 
 it is hard to defin helprin 's elus power , which was also evid -- along with his uneven -- in `` winter 's tale , `` a novel of new york as grand histor myth . 
 the project was the idea of student leader sara charukesn and christin esperanza , two best friend who finish each other 's sentenc so quick that it hard to be sure which one said what . 
 the pancak grew stiff and heavi in his mouth and was hard to swallow . 
 `` it 's hard to talk about , `` he said . 
 elder rural american find money is especi tight and that health care is more expens and harder to get than in the citi , an agricultur depart studi say . 
 i start warm up : while other busi recogn how hard it is for mani peopl to patron them dure the day , the post offic has no offic in san jose open after 5 : 30 p.m . 
 `` it 's a complic trend , and one that 's hard to general about across industri , `` said blake down , a palo alto consult and ventur capitalist . 
 nowher doe it seem harder for the fat polic than at the high school level . 
 he too , howev , believ the republ may find it hard to jettison their soviet tie . 
 it may be equal hard for the art council of santa clara counti to round up creativ type for it artist registri , describ as a `` key resourc to facilit communic with and about the art communiti here. '' 
 `` it 's hard for me to accept. '' 
 `` it 's realli hard to say . 
 autograph are hard to come by , but a face or two might be familiar . 
 `` jill and i were talk about how hard it is to break into the san francisco club . . . even though we draw in san jose , `` said alison . 
 save the parent seem like a much harder task . 
 howev , longtim parti chairman gus hall was a hard man to reach by telephon this week . 
 it 's often harder to cope with the stress of be unemploy than it is to make end meet , especi if your is a two-incom household . 
 the board has to be abl to ask hard question , and ask for inform in a certain way , so it understand it. '' 
 it is best to let it wear off after you have kill the aphid becaus it is hard to get off . 
 a what i worri about is when economi are not robust , it is harder to get market open . 
 two german librari with extens collect on the islam world confirm the book 's exist but said it was hard to obtain . 
 good english , howev , is harder to preserv than good architectur . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that our communiti has becom like new york and los angel . 
 even now , it 's hard for me to think about the event dure the earli year of my marriag , which veer from intens happi to deep sad . 
 `` it was kind of hard talk to someon about this , `` said katherin , refer to her interview with krementz . 
 it 's hard to tell from scatter scene . 
 `` most of the peopl in my depart do differ job , and that make it hard for me to do apprais interview , `` a depart head complain . 
 it 's hard to overrid righteous to go surf . 
 `` the administr is duck the hard decis on energi and the environ . 
 ( answer : `` the show has been great for me , but it 's hard to have ani real feel for him becaus he doe n't expos much . 
 ( check ) altern : unfortun , lauan is the cheapest plywood , and it 's hard to find an altern compar in price . 
 `` my parent , both of them , did not even finish high school so it has been hard for me to even think about go to colleg , `` said junior patricia rodriguez . 
 `` if we focus and execut against anybodi , we ll be hard to stop , `` said sjs insid lineback chris clark , who had a team-high nine tackl , a quarterback sack and fumbl recoveri . 
 it 's hard to accept the fact that one out of everi four of our children will be abus by the time they are 18 year old . 
 when told that such said erickson was too laid back in his world seri start , after be too hyper in the playoff , erickson said , `` i guess it 's too hard to make everybodi happi . 
 which fate await emf is hard to say after onli one hour . 
 to hebert , it 's not hard to add all of this up . 
 time appar are so hard that even lotto fever has cool down to a cold sweat . 
 tame and bark are characterist of juvenil anim , and today 's dog is a canin genet stuck in adolesc , a youngster that find it hard to keep it mouth shut . 
 the hardest thing about comedi , he say , is that you have no idea if it 's go to work until you see it on stage . 
 it is hard for them to be open-mind about bloodsh . 
 `` but probabl one of the hardest thing is find bean thing kid like. '' 
 q : regard the sewag treatment plant problem , discharg fresh water into the bay : in the past , san jose 's resist to compli with environment law seem to have made a settlement with the water qualiti control board hard to reach . 
 it 's hard to argu with his coach techniqu , especi after becom the toast of the nba for the job he did saturday in san antonio , texa . 
 it was hard , becaus they ( polic offic ) would rather have gone to shoot it out in a bank robberi than go to a communiti meet . 
 this has been their sinc the nixon year when they discov that if you arous racial emot , never hard to do in america , it was better to have the white vote than the black vote , if all you want was to win . 
 `` ani check go out is a hard one to write , `` said kitayama , `` but it 's for a caus that is go to help the industri in the long run. '' 
 rule were few ; the hardest part of the whole experi was choos which car to drive next . 
 it would be hard to make that argument if busi was propos the tax increas . 
 among human speaker `` last die '' is a natur way to express patho , though a tautolog ; but a mean which would make it a correct descript of the career of the son is hard to invent . 
 gentl reader -- it is hard to imagin whi anyon negoti a rise to the top would consid it possibl to skip master the veri simpl requir necessari to get food direct into the mouth . 
 veri hard to find a few nice acr in florida . 
 it 's harder to look for a new job . 
 anderson said the council did n't make the need hard decis . 
 and date is hard sometim ; i do n't alway know if the man is interest in me . 
 certain , it is veri hard for most american to be patriot when there is no agreed-upon countri to cherish , onli war tribe and , over all , a nation secur state to keep the lid on -- $ 300 billion a year for law and order . 
 i mean , how hard was it go to be to sit there and watch robert redford ride around on horseback ? 
 `` his book are easi to read and hard to swallow. '' 
 most peopl would agre that immanuel kant was a great thinker and also that he was hard to understand . 
 show courtesi ; when he was on patrol , finton said some non-smok offic would simpli throw out the ashtray in polic car , make it harder for smoker who use the vehicl . 
 `` it 's the hardest individu sport that there is . 
 it 's hard to talk about yourself . 
 i suspect as the newest wave of immigr becom second and third generat american , their need and vote instinct will be as divers as those of ani other american , and it may be increas hard to identifi them as a vote bloc . 
 yet in a coupl of week , danforth will lead the charg against the bush white hous to pass the 1991 civil right act , a bill seek to revers recent suprem court decis that make it harder for women and minor to prove job discrimin , especi claim base on statist under-represent in the workplac . 
 youth in alameda and santa clara counti agre that find a summer job this year is harder than ever . 
 it 's just an averag day at the children 's discoveri museum of san jose , everi child 's answer to heaven -- perhap the onli place in town where it 's hard to tell the big kid from the littl kid . 
 it 's hard to delv into the mind of a rooster. '' 
 `` it 's hard to believ peopl are talk about the ( remot ) chanc of this club , when i saw what i saw today. '' 
 the nation labor relat board announc a decis friday that could make it harder for compani to reloc factori to low-wag area . 
 doorknob becom slipperi and hard to twist . 
 `` it 's go to be veri hard for my client to buy one , `` he said . 
 and though the flavor is n't as pronounc as jarlsberg , it 's hard to quibbl when you have such impress nutrit number . 
 dreyfuss as sam is hard to take . 
 a divorc would be pain , expens and hard on the kid . 
 `` it 's becom hard to generat new blood , `` cibilich said . 
 which make her withdraw and grief that much harder to take . 
 in no time at all their veri revolutionari qualiti are copi , and appear quit dismal hackney : what was onc fresh and surpris becom tricksi and affect , and by now , in the case of the new wave , the movement is so barnacl with it own clich that it is hard to rememb the high - inordin high - hope it began with . 
 anyway , my concern , after this balch spring incid , is that more crimin will start pack turtl , which are quieter than gun and harder to pick up with metal detector . 
 it 's also hard for the assessor to keep track of sale . 
 `` they are lay some contract out but it 's realli hard to find the decision-makers. '' 
 first , clow said she had a hard time get the word out to parent of disabl children . 
 this may be hard for the manag to do , but that 's the kind of thing manag get paid for . 
 as student sign yearbook and wrote phone number on the back of their hand , branham junior lori dickerson said she expect watch graduat to be particular hard `` becaus we ll see what we should have been doing. '' 
 the hardest part for brown probabl has been the off-the-field demand . 
 it 's not surpris to me that it 's often hard to get top peopl interest in public servic . 
 it 's veri hard to imagin do the thing we do without languag . 
 `` we learn the hard way that you ca n't celebr until the final whistl , `` he said . 
 she also complain that the club had a hard time keep peopl on it board of director . 
 the matur was the hard part ; the flop just seem to come natur . 
 `` the hardest thing in the world to do is to say , 'i 'm good , i 'm capabl . ' 
 high school attend is harder to keep up than elementari and middl school attend . 
 as marsali ' versatil son wynton onc observ , it 's veri hard to flip-flop between jazz and classic in the same even . 
 it 's hard to focus . 
 deal with the loss is hard enough . 
 it 's hard to say it 's an accid , but it pretti much was -- there was no real fighting. '' 
 some said that , even if abort remain legal , it may becom harder to obtain . 
 he now explain , `` sinc then , if an actor doe someth that 's hard to pull off , or is unusu in some way , we ll singl the person out. '' 
 shannon kelley told her mother , martha kelley , owner of almaden valley videotap and a member of almaden kiwani club , about how hard it is for blind peopl to use a machin design for peopl who can see . 
 now this i find a littl hard to believ . 
 and it 's hard to envis jackson humbl throw bat practic for the next six month without creat some sort of a ruckus . 
 `` she did n't like the idea of be tie to them but she was have a veri hard time tri to cut back becaus she was in constant pain . 
 local exhibitor alreadi have a hard time project a sharp pictur with crisp sound . 
 it 's alway hard to leav a job one enjoy so much . 
 natur his intent in put so much weight on it has been found especi hard to grasp . 
 and hard to deni . 
 `` we have 15 player and it 's hard to get all of them in . 
 it is alway hard to predict the futur , and yet polici get made anyway . 
 the support of media and fan is harder to come by . 
 and he said the team 's 13-game lose streak has been hard on everyon . 
 in the bay area , perform art is tradit associ with the extravag present of georg coat and paul dresher , whose multimedia work is otherwis hard to `` type. '' 
 it 's hard to convey in word . 
 and when your hormon are go , it 's hard to think. '' 
 gerald power , associ professor at boston univers 's colleg of communic , say `` public relat can be hard to defin . 
 still , the trend toward shorter vacat was spark earlier by the explos of two-work household , which make it much harder to dovetail schedul , and it has grown as tour oper have increas target this grow market nich . 
 `` it 's possibl that so few compani had a hard time compli with the law becaus mani had alreadi develop polici and practic that were not far out of sync with what these parent-leav law requir , `` the studi said . 
 the narrow man , the man who know littl outsid his own field of scienc and noth at all outsid scienc itself , is virtual useless in industri - not just becaus he find it hard to communic with or manag other peopl -lrb- which is import enough -rrb- but also becaus he is a bad technologist . 
 `` part of this law also has to do with make it harder for kid to buy cigarett in the first place , `` she said . 
 whi should it be so hard to know what you re eat ? 
 they say he later er in the other direct by agre to almost all the term set by civic group that had oppos his origin plan , even if the revis lead to a scaled-down plan that is hard to make profit . 
 the latest generat of eda softwar replac older generat that were much harder to use and took longer to design product -- and mani of the program were fashion by the chip compani themselv . 
 `` it is hard to leav this campus , `` fullerton said . 
 our second afternoon , as we drag into merc lake after an 8.4-mile downhil hike that we had all thought would be a snap , one of my well-travel companion gasp , `` i ve decid this is harder than nepal . 
 the deficit is whi , the politician say , there is not enough money to help the citi , not enough money to provid health care to 33 million uninsur american , not enough money to help eastern europ and the soviet republ through their hard transit to democraci and therebi build a better world . 
 i have a hard time with the peopl who say , 'i hate polit , i do n't even want to talk about it. ' . 
 the requir inform is includ , but i think the type style and format are especi hard to read . 
 anoth issu : editor tina brown know how hard it is to follow a hit like the august vaniti fair cover show a nude and pregnant demi moor , but brown has a second biggi come in septemb 's mega-edit of the popular mag . 
 it is hard to estim how much loss to the revenu the changeov , keep the same rate , would involv , but a figur of *+30 m has been quot . 
 `` it 's hard to give a quick report card on the governor 's action on solv the budget becaus the crisi is just so enorm , `` said senat presid pro tempor david roberti , d-los angeles. `` . 
 `` he is go to bring about a differ attitud among the black peopl in san jose , and that 's hard to do becaus black folk in this town are not veri togeth . 
 `` marijuana sale are pretti hard to come by around here , so a pound of good qualiti marijuana like sinsemilla sell quit high , `` said detect mark kostic of the southern alameda counti narcot enforc team which assist the dea in confisc the plant . 
 `` that 's one of the hardest thing . 
 his wife , whom i had a hard time distinguish from the flower chintz sofa , was obvious suffer from a sever laura ashley overdos . 
 those folk at the societi for the preserv of english languag and literatur , it 's hard to run verbal goof and malaprop past em . 
 mercuri news nation and foreign editor paul van slambrouck , onc a correspond for the christian scienc monitor in south africa , understand that inform is sometim hardest to come by when event play out beneath a chador of secreci . 
 `` becaus of the tremend scope of the atroc , it 's hard to forget , `` said kent khauv , a san jose cambodian who work as a clinic clerk for the santa clara counti health depart . 
 some peopl do abus the system , but for most peopl on welfar , it 's a long and hard struggl to get through the month . 
 `` the set are longer and a lot harder , `` kraemer said in a fatigu voic . 
 ferreira was conscious but `` look like he was have a hard time with the pain. '' 
 `` but we are face the typic summer slowdown , and it is hard to say what will happen. '' 
 'i go to intern gymnast camp to look , but a second korbut is veri hard to find. ' -- gymnast coach and former olymp champ olga korbut . 
 `` it is veri hard to fathom a colleagu who would do thing like that , `` said brad phillipson , fire marshal in san marino . 
 it 's hard to stay quick . 
 other analyst worri that the fed 's recent stimulus may be tantamount to `` push on a string '' whose front end is veri hard to move with pressur from behind . 
 these forc were numer enough , and even now after sixti year it is hard to find anyon whose sympathi can be enlist for them against those who emerg with the battl honour and the consequ good press . 
 jame georg , a former canadian ambassador to kuwait and an environment scientist who led a friend of the earth inspect team to kuwait in june , told the subcommitte that now these lake are catch fire , caus more pollut than a well fire , and will be harder to extinguish . 
 as berman conced , he had to learn that the hard way as far as the home-run call . 
 it 's hard to see a brighter pictur for children for year to come . 
 stick to what you re do ' ; but , she say , `` it 's a realli , realli hard time in radio right now for peopl who are n't danc artist and whose music doe n't have the certain groov that happen to be popular now , `` she say . 
 `` you ought to make the 18th the hardest hole on the golf course. '' 
 this is hard enough to achiev in drama but xception tricki in comedi , which depend on the intang element of time for much of it effect . 
 `` i know that my hardest work come befor and after game . 
 `` sometim it 's hard to explain what 's go on even when you both speak the same languag , `` nguyen said . 
 `` it 's a hard one to give up , `` parde said . 
 earth day 1990 is a hard act to follow . 
 `` it was kind of hard to do what they want me to do , `` said susan , an eighth-grad at hopkin junior high . 
 hard to wake up '' , she falter . 
 is hard , on the other hand , to blame the policeman , blank , good-natur , thoughtless , and insuper innoc , for be such a perfect repres of the peopl he serv . 
 herbert jarrel , technic director of accuraci test for the american associ of bioanalyst , said it is hard to see how lab can fail , yet they still do . 
 was go to be hard go all the way becaus he had n't written serious for a while , except for a few stori , was tire of the old method of realismo he had so success use in the sky is red . 
 the red sox have done thing the hard way in a late drive for their fourth divis championship in six year . 
 enter her bodi with the ghast intimaci of an incubus , and it particl , spread , creep , crawl , join themselv into steel band that constrict her knee so tight that they ach ; stifl her lung so that her breath came in harsh gasp ; clutch her throat and suck up the moistur in her mouth so that her tongu was dri and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clench togeth in the rigid fixtur of her jaw . 
 but the relationship between physic activ and cancer is harder to grasp . 
 the sometim tedious discuss of virus strain and cell type , where they came from and what was done with them may be hard go for the uniniti , but it is these detail that provid counterpoint to crewdson 's report , for those reader who wish to compar . 
 but if he think he 's go to step in and take my job , it 's go to be harder than he thinks. '' 
 `` but if it 's over a kitchen sink , it can be hard to reach the plant if the window is real deep , `` hickerson said . 
 a desert storm can be so fierc that it 's hard to stand up straight , see more than a few feet or even catch a breath . 
 whi is it so hard to find an open condemn of this aggress in our media ? 
 biden hail it as `` a tough crime bill that includ death penalti for mani more offens , make it harder for crimin to buy gun , ban assault weapon , beef up feder and local crime fighter , launch an attack on gang , on rural crime and on drug offend and provid new prisons. '' 
 the world 's lead maker of liquid crystal display screen for lap-top , the japanes firm hosiden corp. , said last month that it will no longer bother tri to export the screen to the unit state , make them harder for u.s. firm to acquir . 
 mill ' perform grow steadili in emot convict until it 's hard to imagin this damag , vulner victim is be play by the same actress who play abbi , the wick vixen of `` knot land , `` for so mani season . 
 the 67-year-old actor like the idea of do a coupl of `` gunsmok '' tv movi a year , `` but a week show would be too hard a workload for me these days. '' 
 it 's hard to maintain that kind of thing for a whole game , especi on the road. '' 
 televis is hard to fight . 
 `` it 's hard for some of us to realiz that in prosper silicon valley there are children , older folk and even whole famili in desper need of all kind of servic , from emerg food and shelter to substanc abus counsel to afford child care . 
 if so , it might be hard to match him with a co-host . 
 `` it 's been veri hard to understand whi corpor have n't seen that . 
 to some degre , it is , but it 's hard to say how much of the short-run burden is due to the current recess . 
 the first one is hard to get in until spangler show us how to bend the end slight to fit it over the motherboard 's mount rail . 
 such help is not hard to find . 
 these guidelin are voluntari , and it 's hard to determin how fast new idea are trickl into the classroom . 
 iron , stanford research , who have complain for sever year that stanford 's high overhead rate was make it harder for them to compet for grant , may benefit . 
 `` i ve been wait sinc the last day of 89 for this , and it 's hard to describ . 
 when kelleh and busi partner rollin king map out southwest 's origin rout -- between dalla , houston and san antonio -- on a cocktail napkin in 1966 , they had no idea how hard it would be for busi to take off . 
 current tax law make it harder for arizona communiti to lure team than the one in florida , and vincent is tri to influenc the legislatur . 
 now there are two problem : get the polic budget under control , so that the citi know the real cost of servic ; and decid -- this is the hard part -- whether san jose can afford those servic in this tight budget year . 
 although costlier and harder to score and compar , these are the kind of test propon of a nation exam system say they want to shoot for . 
 respons growth ' ; `` i know peopl have a hard time . . . they want to keep thing as they are , `` bricker said . 
 drs. mari jumbel and michael chambliss found that a toddler 's high center of graviti and relat larg head make it easi to toppl into a bucket and that the toddler 's lack of coordin and strength make it hard to get out . 
 it 's hard as hell to get anyth go , `` said phillip brown , novato 's citi manag . 
 it 's hard to understand and it 's unconnect to scienc polici issues. '' 
 they are hard to read and understand , but they reveal plenti to those who can interpret them . 
 landri , 52 , a former beauty-shop owner who has three biolog children and has adopt seven handicap children , say the three year it took to adopt her first son , denni , now 21 , were hard on her and the boy . 
 in particular , smith said , vapor that pose health risk could make it harder for some peopl to sell their home . 
 anita hill 's alleg of sexual harass will make it harder , not easier , for public figur to sexual harass their employe and surviv public scrutini . 
 the machin is so small and built with such common materi that it would be extrem hard to detect , said edward j. lofgren , a physicist who help to develop the devic in the earli 1940s at the univers of california at berkeley . 
 ( box ) avoid children -- kid in this group had a hard time as babi . 
 becaus the brush head is so small , it is ideal for get to those hard-to-reach place mani toothbrush miss . 
 the fdic resist that approach for month , argu that bank failur are too hard to predict . 
 it was hard to separ the two. '' 
 when `` abov '' is part of the problem , this is hard to request . 
 some candid acknowledg they would have a hard time do so . 
 `` this has alway been the librari of the peopl and now it 's go to be harder for peopl to use. '' 
 it 's hard to resist such uncondit love . 
 but it will be hard to rais anybodi 's conscious if you ca n't first get their attent . 
 the usual terrif nelligan ( `` eye of the needl '' ) is particular hard to take . 
 the hard choic are clear in the hepburn book , the desol when she find her belov spencer traci dead on her kitchen floor and the dread moment when traci 's widow tell her , `` i thought you were onli a rumor. '' 
 q has it been hard to resist the temptat to trade ? 
 this will break their hearts. ' -- boston mayor ray flynn ; it 's hard to cope with . 
 `` where did he get it ? '' - 't was easili start , but mighti hard to stop . 
 seem even harder to believ it 's still around to celebr anyth . 
 `` you have to make some hard decis . 
 `` la femm nikita '' is so american in style and execut , it 's hard to conceiv of it be ani more american than it is now . 
 `` the fact that he made that statement so earli is hard for me to understand . 
 to be sure , the past and present would not be hard to improv on . 
 the hardest part is see what it 's do to the rest of my teammates. '' 
 one resid said empti park space are hard to find in the plaza lot and she wonder what chevi 's manag plan to do about employe park . 
 it 's hard to say what it is , but i knew as soon as i saw him tell new york on the air the other day , this is not a drill . 
 they have withdrawn certain expens connect with run the presid 's hous , say they were proper but would be hard to explain to the public . 
 medak talk about how hard it was to get his `` the rule class , `` with peter o'tool , off the ground ; journalist-festiv advis gideon bachmann told would-b film maker to start think in term of stori and communic , rather than `` high art. '' 
 `` it 's realli hard to imagin what state servic are go to look like when they re finish solv this problem , `` said marcia howard , act execut director of the nation associ of state budget offic . 
 `` it 's realli hard to imagin what state servic are go to look like when they re finish solv this problem , `` said marcia howard , act execut director of the nation associ of state budget offic . 
 eighty-eight percent said it is harder to be a parent today than it use to be , and 81 percent said parent do n't spend enough time with their children . 
 it 's hard to think of a simpler arrang or a healthier exampl of bare-bon handi . 
 it may be hard for municip offici around the countri to accept it , but free-market republican believ that place like new york , philadelphia and detroit deserv to die . 
 it 's hard to believ that summer is draw to a close , but befor we know it vacat will be over and everyth will be back on a normal ( whatev that is ) schedul . 
 there is a piec of communism in all of us , and this is what will be hardest to kill. '' 
 `` what 's been realli difficult up to now is that kid realli want this in their school , but it 's hard to find ( teacher to serv as ) advis . 
 at time , it has been hard to get the word out , but all told , this chapter in georgia farm histori has reap more profit than problem . 
 in their place , stanford 's ted leland and cal 's bob bockrath are have a hard time contain their glee . 
 but frank , i find that hard to believ . 
 the hardest part of produc this book was not scale mountain , pore over law book , interview murder , write a 480-page book . 
 although it was onli 11 a.m. , the snow was get denser and harder to push with my ski . 
 toyota will have a harder time break into the midwestern market , with it strong `` buy american sentiment. '' 
 of other folklor , wysocki note : ; `` when squirrel hoard a larg store of nut , the winter will be a hard one . 
 `` the more we get , the harder it is to keep up , `` garner said in zakho . 
 say fred : `` it 's hard , but i alway priorit . 
 among those most vulner to the epidem , and hardest to reach , are recent immigr and migrant worker who are often left out of the network of social servic and health educ avail to other long-term resid . 
 and that , it turn out , is a veri , veri hard thing to do . 
 he elud the categori by which we usual sort and evalu artist : he 's unpredict , elus , hard to pin down . 
 in contrast , gene from the nucleus are scant , with onli two copi per cell , and thus harder to salvag from old , damag tissu . 
 `` it 's harder than run . 
 is , i insist , hard to defin the rayburn contribut to our polit civil becaus it is so massiv and so widespread and so complic , and becaus it goe so deep . 
 baldwin 's biggest mistak ; alec baldwin , who co-star with kim basing in `` the marri man '' for a divis of disney , give the studio a hard time in an interview with entertain week magazin . 
 `` for famili that are n't make big incom , it 's realli hard to keep a roof over their head , `` said fran wagstaff , director of the mid-peninsula hous coalit , a non-profit group that help develop and maintain afford hous unit in the bay area . 
 they want congress to make it harder for individu to file . 
 between the superb fish chowder , the rock lobster they call guinea chick on bermuda , plus conch stew , pan-fri rockfish , and other fresh seafood , it 's not hard to dine veri well . 
 if the dove was even close on the first day of the talk , it was hard to tell . 
 `` wintertim is the hardest time , `` said trish crowder , execut director of the san jose shelter foundat and vice chairwoman of the center 's plan committe . 
 of cours , to see her everi sunday , from the waist up , alway smile behind her desk at espn , it 's hard to imagin that pixi look on the polish robin robert . 
 implement the nutrit label and educ act of 1990 , the bush administr has said it should n't be hard . 
 if it escap into the neighbor 's lawn you ll find it hard to erad without kill the other grass . 
 john f. kennedi was presid , but you 'd have a hard time find a trace of his romant camelot in turlock circa 1962 -- the time and place of `` pink lightn , `` tonight 's premier movi on the fox network . 
 the machin that take a dna fragment and spin out copi is n't much harder to use than the newest xerox . 
 the step are not especi difficult , but it flow line and haunt , unearth atmospher are hard to master . 
 former kansa citi royal second baseman frank white , with his outstand career clear near it end , is have a hard time get a contract for 1991 . 
 it 's hard to say what make peopl censor. '' 
 and they could make it veri hard for king fahd of saudi arabia and presid hosni mubarak of egypt to keep fight -- and keep risk more arab live -- now that saddam has offer to pull out if israel will do the same . 
 bonni raitt is a woman in love -- it 's aw hard to miss that . 
 as for this year 's team , `` i have a hard time describ this team other than they play well together. '' 
 in dunsmuir , the econom damag is harder to assess . 
 it was even harder for him to accept the news this time , but trevor wilson just knot his tie and dodg question . 
 `` i had a real hard time sit on the bench , `` said knecht , who also play safeti in high school . 
 `` the area is so big , so vast , that it 's realli hard to get a handl on it , `` he said . 
 were these skill missil maker hard to find ? 
 such disclosur would put a spotlight of embarrass on banker , and make it harder for the problem of troubl institut to be swept under the rug . 
 find time can be the hardest part , so schedul your choic or you may never do it . 
 it 's hard to miss san mateo 's dunfey hotel from highway 101 . 
 even from the perspect of time and empti raid can , it is hard to decid which were wors : santa ana 's fli water bug or southern maryland 's chirp cricket . 
 kid-test bean recip are hard to come by . 
 i had no quarrel with the flavor of either steak or sauc , but the meat was fill with gristl and hard to cut , even with the dull steak knife i final obtain from a waiter after our own simpli ignor my request . 
 stood up , smooth her hair down , straighten her cloth , feel a thank for the envelop dark outsid , and , abov everyth els , for the absenc of the need to answer , to respond , to be awar even of stowey come in or go out , and yet , now that she was begin to cook , she glimps a futur without him , a futur alon like this , and the pain made her head writh , and in a moment she found it hard to wait for lucretia to come with her guest . 
 perhap the part mani find hardest is the necess for profess appreci afterward . 
 `` it 's hard to do good when you ve been do bad . 
 as davi cup `` miracl '' go , this one will be hard to beat . 
 `` it 's a hard cours , but i did n't see a darn thing wrong with it . 
 is hard to blame them for this . 
 `` that 's hard to do . 
 `` it 's hard here to understand the separ of the two becaus of all the violenc we see in our daili live , `` he said . 
 `` the next day we were record in the studio -- and this is hard to believ -- but of all thing , lonni jordan spill some wine on the record consol . 
 a ground war , he said , `` will be veri hard. '' 
 `` as old as i am , it 's all still hard to face peopl who take their parent respons so light . 
 they did n't take the telephon line down -- how hard can that be ? -- allow yeltsin to communic with georg bush and john major , both of whom did all that they could to lay down the law from the intern perspect . 
 `` edg citi are hard to defin , `` he write , `` becaus they rare have a mayor or citi council . . . '' 
 we got through ; by falsifi result ' ; diana caldwel found out the hard way what can happen when lab test go wrong . 
 `` it is hard to find a plant that is not a host , `` natwick said . 
 both writer are fair interest , particular mcnamara , but at the end it 's hard to figur out whi adam chose either . 
 randisi , who is respons for the roundup , said it is get harder to persuad the duck into the trap -- cover , wire mesh enclosur , curv at the end for the entranc . 
 unfortun , the snow pea and the noodl were bad overcook and the piec of chicken were harder than find a shortstop who hit 40 home run . 
 it 's hard to be a phenom -- especi when you re alway recov from injuri . 
 it 's hard to take this too serious in light of jenkin ' comment after a 73-3 season-open win over louisiana tech . 
 everett said he thought cox was go to run a longer rout over the middl , but it 's hard to imagin everett get the ball over bowl in that situat . 
 it turn into one of those thing when the more you reach out to someon , the harder they are to touch . 
 obstacl : she has a heart condit that make it hard for her heart to work effici . 
 is it so hard to believ that nativ american were and still are just like everyon els ? 
 if the dough is too hard , you may have to wait 3 to 5 minut , but it will cut clean and you wo n't lose narrow part of the cutout . 
 it 's pretti hard to beat that down , `` she said . 
 moreov , said david wyss , research director for dri/mcgraw-hil , an econom consult firm , `` a weak christma will mean it would be hard to get much action in the first quarter of 1992 becaus retail will be overstock and order anemic. '' 
 the session was n't entir serious -- it 's hard to be too serious over lunch at bini 's -- but the point was there : if the supe ca n't agre on new district line reflect popul chang from the 1990 census , somebodi els ( three somebodi , actual ) will . 
 without clear and reliabl mammographi , research say , breast cancer is more like to go undetect until it is larger and harder to treat . 
 hard year of `` on the job '' train had brought them to their compet . 
 `` david duke has some good idea about some thing , but i think it would be hard for him to accomplish some of those idea , `` hebert told new orlean report . 
 `` the hardest thing was , you 'd turn around and the drummer ( steve jordan ) has switch with the bass player ( charli drayton ) and then on the next song they ve switch back. '' 
 nothin 's worth have if it ai n't ; a littl hard to get . 
 it was hard to skate after mark , `` said galindo , who split with pair partner kristi yamaguchi last april after they had won back-to-back nation titl . 
 accord to stephen o'donnel , assist store manag at the mcdonald 's where the mclean is avail in san jose , `` it 's hard to beat those 320 calories. '' 
 it was too hard to get help . 
 it 's hard to face down a room of elder and disabl peopl plead for merci . 
 but when he left the bay area , he found victori harder to come by . 
 the expert also note that parent who are intens polit about their sexual may make it harder for their children by deni them the option of secreci . 
 `` i think most peopl have a hard time believ that the suprem court could take away a constitut right , `` say kolbert . 
 i know it 's hard , i know they re have a tough time , with the cost of live . 
 the hardest decis could involv bass , presum he return on the schedul date . 
 `` it 's hard to flush thing out of your mind with all these stat and these game the businessmen play , `` he said . 
 may be hard to decid what this labor is worth , but charg someth for it . 
 other rider insist the helmet distort their balanc and make it harder to see . 
 `` the hardest thing to do is to do someth that you feel veri strong about music , that realli reflect you , and that also reach a lot of peopl , too . 
 point to his experi in foreign-exchang trade , bradi contend that it 's hard for govern to success affect the cours of such larg market . 
 when you re success -- and success in the game today is win and make money -- it 's real hard to say you re not do the right thing when your team has been in the world seri three year in a row , you ve led the leagu in home run and you re make $ 3 million a year , `` jackson said . 
 `` at least i went for the hardest thing , `` he said . 
 if , for exampl , you do n't see yourself paddl serious whitewat , there 's probabl no need for a small , super-dur ( read heavi ) nimbl ( read hard to control ) model . 
 `` they have to understand that in time that get harder , provid a benefit like this is not frivolous. '' 
 perhap it is your wish to never have to learn anyth hard again ? 
 it 's hard to believ , for exampl , that judi rankin has n't made it . 
 as he stick his black nose through the fenc and whimper for attent , one find it hard to believ that anyon would n't want this dog . 
 `` it 's a veri hard choic , `` echo santa clara mayor sue lasher , who also has a vote . 
 we live in a dirt-floor shack in the northern nevada desert with neighbor of a similar mind -- nice folk most , until the sun went down and alcohol mix with strong emot and it becam hard to rememb that we all love and care about one anoth . 
 back in the cheap seat , the one that onli cost $ 150 each , it was hard to tell , at least until the video screen on the side of the huge tent on the hospit ground flick on , and we got video confirm -- a quick glimps of the white hair , the broad smile , the trademark pearl . 
 `` it 's hard to talk about our success without talk about dianna 's success , `` he say . 
 one hard choic will involv the promis addit of 45 polic offic next year . 
 the ntsb said the light configur use by the skywest plane compli with feder regul , but would have made it harder to see than if it had been fulli illumin . 
 that make it hard to provid enough open space spread even through the develop , the report said . 
 the film bring us closer than we ve ever been to herd of the skittish beast , which have surviv in larg number onli becaus they ve been harder for poacher to find and more expens to hunt becaus of their remot . 
 after five year of hard -- dri -- lesson , santa clara valley water offici are look for way to store more water dure raini year . 
 american cathol learn a hard lesson when exclus ethnic `` nation '' church common in the east and midwest close when parishion move to the suburb . 
 `` it 's veri hard for singl parent , who are struggl , to be activ in deal with the communiti , `` she said . 
 for a person on the road for ten thousand mile a year , that add up to about one chanc in ten thousand per year of be kill in an automobil accid , much larger than mani of the other risk we tri so hard to exorcis , but still less than a tenth the averag risk of death from smoking. '' 
 i find it hard to talk about peopl who are fan of mine . 
 she say it 's hard to sit with her husband and watch a movi in which she make passion love to an on-screen co-star . 
 it get hard to explain what they actual see. '' 
 but at this remot outpost , up steep path of thick mud inaccess to most truck , it is hard to see a pattern to the haphazard distribut of what thus far have been meager food and water suppli . 
 though they found a higher proport of player list as out or doubt after game on artifici surfac , duberstein said actual sever of injuri was hard to accur measur . 
 heather said it 's hard for her to concentr on schoolwork when , direct across the street , drug dealer are do a brisk and lethal busi . 
 `` the stori of their creation and journey from new zealand is hard to determin , `` say nathen wright , part owner of the nurseri . 
 `` mayb if i 'd had hunter befor , `` she said , `` i would n't have had such a hard time with it. '' 
 scott halem work with a group that distribut needl week to hard-to-reach , high-risk intraven drug addict . 
 sinc he hold no public offic , it 's harder for him to rais money . 
 it 's realli hard , all the thing that go along with this ; it 's not as easi as a lot of peopl look at it . 
 q is it go to be hard to ration anoth 5 percent ? 
 `` i can sympath with investor , these are hard risk to understand , `` said william gross , manag director with pacif invest manag co. in newport beach , calif . 
 `` it might be hard to say that when you walk nine men , but the problem was he had too much adrenaline. '' 
 the cutback , especi those involv remov of manag layer , indic that most young manag will have a harder and longer time get not onli salari increas but actual promot . 
 in mani state , he said , the governor , legislatur and mayor are angl so hard for tactic advantag that `` it 's hard to figur out what 's behind all the polit smoke and mirrors. '' 
 it would be so hard to get everyon togeth . 
 `` tell her what you think , '' i said ; but in a conformist small town this was evid as hard as for an atheist parent to challeng religi instruct . 
 `` it 's hard to explain . 
 as frustrat as the situat can seem , it 's hard to knock the a 's for tri to maxim sale . 
 `` it 's hard to explain to a 3-year-old , `` she say . 
 the hard part is guess what he might be good at do on tv . 
 these day , it 's hard to find anyon in silicon valley or elsewher who doe n't reli on a person comput , work station , network and the other accouter of high technolog to do his job . 
 `` to have fraud , there has to be crimin intent there , and that 's hard to prove. '' 
 it may be hard land a ceo for kaleida becaus of the impress credenti demand by the search team , head by appl vice presid david nagel . $ 
 but like mani of about 25 other wit be sought , they are hard to locat becaus they do not yet have perman hous . 
 you may find this hard to believ , but i love him dear and it hurt when i see the way his famili live while i struggl to bare make end meet . 
 come to america has alway been hard . 
 after the hear wednesday , serra and other support acknowledg that the celebr status and massiv popular support that help croy gain his freedom may also have made it harder to adjust later when , as the judg put it , the `` glitter goe away. '' 
 lawyer involv in mental health issu say compani are unlik to tri to get rid of mental ill worker befor the law take effect , in part becaus mani of these employe have not come forward and are hard to identifi . 
 it 's hard to believ he wo n't be come home. '' 
 `` it 's hard to say i 'm happi becaus of a man 's life here , `` said dian nelson , the mother of slain esl worker wayn `` buddi '' william . 
 it 's hard to imagin a bunch of bureaucrat go for this ornament on the side of an age brick build downtown . 
 `` it 's hard enough for ani famili , `` he add . 
 part of the problem , he say , is it 's hard to know what 's import . 
 when it come time to plant the new bare-root rose in januari , the hard part will be done . 
 and it is hard to know what his ideal bat weight should be . 
 `` i mean , it ca n't be that hard to get him a replac , `` arata said . 
 wilson 's last-minut worker 's compens propos , which fail to emerg from an assembl committe wednesday afternoon , would make it harder for worker to collect injuri payment for stress-rel claim . 
 firefight had a harder time than expect stop the blaze that has jump contain line and spread to more than 2 , 750 acr . 
 bill stone , presid of stanford 's alumni associ , said the alumni 's fierc loyalti to stanford has made the controversi especi hard to take . 
 take , for instanc , the promin sign over the fit room that were harder to find in older k mart . 
 howev , run dos softwar , the zenith is faster at the same task , though harder to learn than the mac . 
 despit hard financi time , the counti last year hand out $ 550 `` bonus '' to each of it 2 , 000 manag , they said . 
 it 's hard to get corpor to rethink that. '' 
 `` if you have a hard time save in the first place , they make a lot of sens , `` she said . 
 lean back on the couch in the east san jose home he 's live in sinc 1950 , matsumura think back to the older day and say it 's hard for him to believ that 50 year have gone by . 
 it seem hard to believ now , but it was not till five month later that i brought up the subject in desper . 
 get the measur on the ballot for the nov. 5 elect was not hard to do becaus the solicit for a signatur on the initi was slant in a provoc way ; get the intellig peopl of sunnyval to vote for it will be a much more difficult job -- in this case doubli hard becaus sunnyval is so well-run . 
 this is a hard time to be synthes news from half a world away . 
 but take that first step -- sign up for a swim lesson -- can be the hardest part . 
 david lloyd , a berkeley professor who teach coloni literatur and minor literatur , said , `` it is hard to be a professor now . 
 darkw is what batman might have becom if bruce wayn 's mom had marri howard the duck : a tongue-in-cheek crime fighter who 's hard to take serious . 
 `` one of the hardest thing is to learn to pace yourself . 
 for most peopl , it 's hard to imagin anyth good about a migrain headach . 
 with name like `` swordfish '' and `` lightn , `` it 's hard to rememb these product are realli advanc new semiconductor . 
 ( check ) former bankrupt may find it hard to get a job . 
 so it 's hard not to rais an eyebrow as you listen to `` luck of the draw , `` her new album and the follow-up to 1989 's `` nick of time , `` which won three grammi , sold 2 million copi and rais raitt from cult to star status . 
 `` i find it hard to see how they could be more cooper , `` said robert destatt , a defens intellig agenc research specialist . 
 when you come home from work after a hard day , your loyal dog is alway there to make you feel welcom by leap up on you with insan joy and knock you down and drool all over your busi cloth . 
 in a brochur avail to it custom , hertz said the car that it sell are in `` peak mechan and physic shape '' and receiv `` the kind of constant profession care that is hard for a backyard mechan to provide. '' 
 `` it was kind of hard not play much , `` julien said . 
 `` when you ve cut administr as we have , it 's go to be harder to tell someon to focus on ( dropout ) , `` he said. , `` but that 's not to say that we wo n't do it. '' 
 in mani case , it 's not veri hard for someon to look up your wed licens , the deed to your hous , your polit parti or what car you drive . 
 `` it 's just so hard to get a job in nashvill , becaus there are so mani good singer in town. '' 
 `` it 's veri difficult to describ the euphor feel you get when you win the game and , convers , it 's hard to describ the pain you go through when you lose the game , primarili becaus of all the critic that 's heap on you. '' 
 break the tech talk habit , howev , is a lot harder than it sound . 
 to decreas the risk of injuri , develop and follow a hard/easi schedul . 
 he know how hard it can be , have endur the experi at rough the same age . 
 slime mold fruit bodi are often veri beauti , but most are so tini that they re hard to see clear without a magnifi glass . 
 i just said , this is too hard , too difficult and there is no joy in this. ' `` ; burnett note that televis has chang sinc the 1970s . 
 we made `` the right approach '' veri quick , and it was hard work . 
 bush 's anguish that night is hard to believ in view of the fact that he launch the attack on iraq after month of unrel pressur on congress , the u.n. , and the american peopl to accept war , and after reject everi opportun for a peac solut . 
 marriag start on paper ; what make this war even harder for georgia van zanten is know that her son is start his marriag through letter to jennif . 
 and he was kick his front leg in a way that made it harder to drive forward . 
 it 's hard to predict their effici in rough sea , `` said testa . 
 so it 's hard to say. '' 
 `` when you take a nicknam and do n't demean it , `` kelli said , `` i have a hard time with ( ani flap ) . '' 
 `` it was a veri , veri hard thing for us to take . . . when you ve dedic 4 1/2 year of your life and you just want to hold onto him. '' 
 but fresh fruit and veget grower will have a harder time becaus mexican competitor alreadi have a share of our market and want more . 
 `` but , if it 's someth a client alreadi has and is particular drawn to , it 's pretti hard to pull them away from it. '' 
 `` it 's hard to do two thing at onc , `` say ramey , who earlier that day had bash his face against the side of a helicopt dure a bumpi takeoff . 
 such photo of the current crisi are hard to come by becaus of the lack of media coverag . 
 `` how hard is it to get a gun , when a 10-year-old can get it ? `` said sgt. john sieracki , who head a drug enforc unit . 
 although the rule would not technic be bind on other superior court justic , without substanti new evid `` it would be hard ( for them ) to arriv at a differ conclus , `` said david reiser , an attorney for the d.c. public defend servic . 
 sometim it 's hard to figur where one track end and anoth begin , so smooth doe nelson maintain the tone of the set . 
 attract women seem to have the hardest time get date . 
 sure , a few psychopath may actual do these thing , but it 's pretti hard to drum up support for them at the offic . 
 the hardest thing about the piec is not it step -- which are most run and fast chang of direct -- but it fluiditi . 
 it was hard to track what happen to amelior the gripe , but it was easi to see on the local news the effect of the walk ; peopl saw a mayor who pound the pavement , the leadership equival of the cop on the beat . 
 but i find it hard to believ that a truli homeless person is best serv by live in a garbag dump and have to deal with drug dealer . 
 which is too bad , becaus it 's hard to think of a place less like the former kron ( ch. 4 ) weather forecast than l.a. , where insincer and do lunch are art form . 
 some of them are a littl harder to get to know and to be abl to believ in what you re tri to teach them. '' 
 it would be too hard to coordin schedul for three differ group -- not to mention all that equipment. '' 
 as we face harder econom time , we see more need develop in our communiti and a greater sens of urgenc to look for help beyond govern , beyond the church and the non-profit sector . 
 becaus it 's usual veri hard to assess blame for water wast , it 's virtual imposs to assess water penalti fair . 
 subtl violat are ; the hardest to prove ; i am 35 and . . . have alway work in the technical/profession area and have a great deal of interact with my account . 
 `` those student who find it hard to stay on task or be respect find me communic regular about that. '' 
 it 's hard to know if kid fulli understand how bleak her vision is , but if they do , you can bet they wo n't ever be use the air condition in their car . 
 the fastbal that gag hit was n't as hard as the one he 'd been throwing. '' 
 they can trigger recur nightmar or intrus thought , make it hard to concentr . 
 the last five week have been hard on scu , but this might have been the toughest to take . 
 `` david bonior has earn this posit the hard way , `` said rep. john lewi , d-ga. , `` by do the nitty-gritti , unglamor work each and everi day. '' 
 you said you had `` a hard time believ such a thing could happen. '' 
 `` sometim , i 'd have a hard time at school . 
 `` today , it 's a harder scene , `` observ univers spokesman ray colvig , a 1953 graduat of cal . 
 there will alway be some who tri to bend the rule , but clear , stiff rule are at least harder to bend . 
 otherwis it 's hard to tell . 
 and , it 's not hard to get to , be onli 200 mile from either berlin or vienna . 
 `` when you put them up side by side , it 's hard to make an argument that ( the lotteri ) doe n't violat the law. '' 
 in other action : ; ( check ) the court today said it will consid make it harder for titl insur compani to fix price . 
 the baron of the nashvill country-mus machin learn that lesson the hard way last year at the grammi award . 
 favorit movi : `` the last one i saw i like was the shelter sky. ' `` ; music prefer : `` sinc i am a musician , i 'd say improvis creativ music , which is hard to describe. '' 
 it 's kind of hard for a student to talk to a teacher like that . 
 it 's hard for them to read. '' 
 a newark offic build orphan by the save and loan crisi has been offer to the citi of newark in a deal citi offici say may be hard to refus . 
 but the idea of discard the basic etiquett and sanitari measur of the societi is so revolt to civil peopl that it is hard to imagin anyon 's have the stomach to do it as a joke . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to say what will happen in term of addit servic becaus we ve got to get the servic up and run , `` caltran spokesman jim drago said . 
 but with job hard to find and competit fierc , she is among a grow number of peopl take refug from the recess by return to colleg . 
 `` in a war , it 's kind of hard not to stick with a uniti theme , `` a hous democrat leadership aid said . 
 that make it harder to draw district that favor minor candid , he said . 
 `` the common denomin for all these children is that they live in santa clara counti , where life is veri hard for famili , `` said paul schutz , director of develop for social advoc for youth , a counsel and educ program for youth . 
 `` it 's realli hard for them right now , `` sheriff 's sgt. jim knudsen said . 
 it 's hard for citi to provid afford hous , he said . 
 it would be hard to find a mother in america today who has n't wonder if a woman were in the white hous , would we be at war . 
 it is you ... would it be grievous hard on you ? '' 
 `` we want to make the right decis for the good of the communiti , `` mors said , `` and it 's a just a hard decis to make. '' 
 `` where we will be go today , `` johnson said befor the ride , `` is about a two on a scale of one to 10 ( 10 be the hardest ) . 
 `` it 's veri hard to keep a research agenda intact , be gone ani longer than i was , `` she say . 
 `` it 's hard to get them to put on their name tag , some are veri shi , but when they do put on their name tag they have a good time , `` say cleer , laugh . 
 although he continu to insist he is enjoy the challeng , and show no outward sign of wear and tear , wilson 's find out the hard way that spencer 's warn contain a lot more than a grain of truth . 
 it 's hard to work up a lot of warmth for a person with her psycholog hang-up and general poor tast in men . 
 'i did n't do it ' ; `` it 's hard for me to believ this is happen , `` he said in an interview last week . 
 i 'd like to find billi some relief , but it 's just hard to do right now. '' 
 the hardest thing that i suffer on the person level was the treacheri . 
 a friend of the coupl , joyc thompson , said rob had told her three day afterward , while searcher were still look for blair , `` it 's go to be hard rais nicol alone. '' 
 best of all , we now put moral , leadership and real answer to hard question ahead of deprav , expedi and divers -- right ? 
 sometim , it 's hard to imagin yosemit as conservationist john muir first view it pristin magnific . 
 `` it 's not a place i love be , `` she said , mean the limelight , `` and it 's hard to make up $ 72 , 000 . 
 ana jaramillo bicakci , 25 , a geologist in san jose , found the drama to be a dispirit lesson in how hard it is for men and women to communic . 
 `` it 's hard to tell how peopl are go to react to this , `` debley said . 
 said ned : `` if we do n't make it , we ll regroup , but it will be hard to get the momentum up again. '' 
 `` it 's hard for them to get to the point where they do n't feel guilti for be raped. '' 
 or mario eli , whose minut have been hard to find . 
 and the public sector has not fill the gap , he said , note that medicaid coverag is often harder to get in state that have larg popul of black . 
 you lose it at that time in a big game , it 's hard to take. '' 
 it 's hard to believ that ibj got caught in it. '' 
 now come the hard part -- how to go about it . 
 the power of arrog ; `` the hardest thing is sublim the fear that you do n't know what you re do , `` he say , after a long paus . 
 `` it 's hard to realiz this is the last time we can come to see a blackford game here . 
 it 's hard to get the rhythm under those condit . 
 kennedi told a meet of the faculti committe on research on tuesday that stanford might decid to forgo some of the overhead charg becaus they are too hard to explain to the public . 
 the tree fill the yard with so mani leav it is hard to keep up . 
 mayb it would be good for them. ' `` ; deal with state shortfal in special educ fund is harder sinc the class are mandat by state and feder law requir that school provid all servic mental and physic handicap children need . 
 `` but , at time , it 's hard. '' 
 `` i extend my hand -- and it 's pretti hard to extend it to the guy ( mayor bradley ) i extend it to , let me tell you. '' 
 it 's hard to believ that a man so intellig could be an alcoholic/addict . 
 howev , he admit , `` i 'm have a hard time get fund for it . 
 the bread should be quit hard and crisp but still pliabl enough to cut . 
 as regard simpl absenc of humour , i like to think i 'm as fond of a good laugh as the next man , but i can stand do without for long period when read , have been train in the oxford english school , and mani of the best science-fict stori , `` the xi effect , '' for exampl , distil a kind of horror hard to conceiv of as harmonis plausibl with anyth comic . 
 while book to resort such as hawaii still will be hard to come by , seat to other destin in the continent u.s. may be avail , even at the last minut . 
 we do n't want you to imagin it will be easi , but we ve given you betti friedan 's the second stage ( summit , 1981 ) to get a sens of whi it 's worth tri to get the mix right , and arli hochschild 's the second shift ( vike , 1989 ) so you ll realiz that it 's hard for everyon , not just for you . 
 it 's veri hard to sell meat in los angel . 
 it 's easi to say and harder to prove . 
 `` i was n't doubt my abil , but it 's hard to keep a posit attitud sometim , `` chitren said . 
 but the tenor of their romanc is such that it is hard to see how these two could go wrong and , in the end , they do n't . 
 what is even harder to face for some is how fundament the suprem court , along with the countri , has chang sinc that day in 1967 when presid johnson pick marshal to replac justic tom clark . 
 compani such as everex will have a harder time differenti themselv . 
 although she is one of the most close observ anim of modern time , it is hard to tell for sure . 
 they prove that the onli reason these guy do n't belong in a museum is they are hard to read stand up . 
 all of a sudden , japan is burst with plan to import more foreign-mad product -- and it is not hard to figur out whi . 
 sam jankovich , miami 's athlet director from 1983 until leav last decemb to becom the new england patriot ' chief oper offic , issu a statement saturday that said : `` it 's hard for me to believ this kind of thing could happen given the structur of the financial-aid system. '' 
 time for a realiti check ; these day , it 's get harder to distinguish box from pro wrestl . 
 he say it is hard for him to say `` my daughter. '' 
 this was also the hardest part of the movi for kathleen jalalpour to watch . 
 it is hard to know whi they did this , but we can specul . 
 `` it 's hard to justifi pay $ 140 , 000 for black-and-whit when you get color for free. '' 
 she was have a hard time french braid her hair . 
 `` we re in a time of rapid social chang , and it 's hard to know what the rule are at ani point , `` said polit scientist and journal professor philip meyer of the univers of north carolina . 
 unfortun , it 's hard to buy crape myrtl by varieti . 
 the compani stock valu of one of our broker has grown from a $ 3 , 100 contribut made on his behalf in 1985 to $ 77 , 000 six year later ; it would be hard to find a better retir plan . 
 `` that make it damn hard to make a profit . 
 it was n't so hard befor . 
 and sinc the cast rotat for each perform , it would be hard to pull off a flawless show . 
 `` it 's hard when you come this far . . . well , it 's hard to lose anytim , `` said sjs quarterback matt veatch , who threw an intercept that was return for minnesota 's go-ahead touchdown . 
 `` this is harder than run a citi council meet , `` spangler said , quip . 
 candic also learn the hard way that time is a crucial element in some research . 
 quarterback joe montana 's stori run of success with the 49er has been so spectacular that it is hard to imagin it could have gone anoth way . 
 accord to deacon jeremiah yang , chun 's commit to better the live of poor korean -- and his suicid -- were forg more by his recognit of misrul than by his own hard life . 
 the frozen food section continu to burst with new conveni meal , main dish and snack item , but nutrit inform can be hard to find unless there 's a health pitch with the product . 
 `` the one thing there was univers support for was the fact that he had been through a hard time. '' 
 but the council approv a last-minut amend that will make it harder to win the univers regent ' approv . 
 `` it 's much harder to do that kind of intellig dramat seri with overlap stori line today and keep it on the air , `` he said , refer to the grow competit that has made patienc a cost virtu . 
 in other word , all the peopl you figur would have a hard time find work anywher els are still stuck at wkrp a decad later . 
 `` starlight angel '' short , cram with ken and barbi facsimil , is particular hard to take . 
 was the onli thing about her that was the least bit hard to rememb . 
 cuomo describ the issu of hire quota as `` a nice thing to discuss , especi if you want to get peopl 's eye off the real problem ( the economi ) , which you ca n't deal with becaus it 's too hard politically. '' 
 black truffl are prize for impart flavor to food and are expens -- $ 500 a pound or more for fresh product -- becaus they are hard to come by and the world 's suppli has been reduc by over-harvest . 
 with all the buzz go on from everybodi 's electron agenda , voic memo-tak , pill-tak remind and other such unnecessarili fanci trinket , it is hard to tell . 
 her career is set now , and her sing is hard to beat . 
 my favorit holiday halloween- ; is realli hard to beat ! 
 `` it 's hard to be excit and upset at the same time , becaus we got so close , `` sander said . 
 but we could n't even go to leningrad without permiss -- and that was hard to get , `` he said . 
 one ought not to propos remedi except for admit evil ; and i find it hard to say that the popular of oxford and cambridg is an evil . 
 it 's alway hard when you re play a team with a lose record . 
 `` i 'm afraid i had a hard time wake up this morn after what i drank last night. '' 
 `` it 's get as hard to keep up with us as it is with the player , `` one general manag muse . 
 miss manner fail to understand whi this is so hard . 
 `` develop and builder are have a hard time . 
 the godfath of comedi ; in the mid-'80 , it was hard to think of san francisco comedi without think of alex bennett , the don corleon of the scene . 
 it was go to be hard after a summer of play ( gabriela ) sabatini and martina , then play the no. 1 for fresno state. '' 
 `` you re talk about peopl who have a hard enough time get down the street . 
 besid , the true `` valu '' of a particular packag is far harder to defin than just a dollars-and-c initi price . 
 when your own need are not met , it 's hard to take care of other ' need . 
 no-fault make it easier and faster to be compen sate for the typic medium-s accid , but harder to file lawsuit and mayb win big buck . 
 even your three-bedroom , two-bath , four semi-automat famili know how darn hard it is to get instant servic . 
 `` it 's hard to do someth you do n't believ in. '' 
 i had a lot of fun on r & r and it was so hard to come back here . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that it happened. '' 
 the engin do not produc smoke , so it is hard for the nake eye to spot the eagl high in the sky . 
 and at 6-foot-7 and 300 pound , that 's a hard feel to have . 
 it 's hard for me to sit and nod my head at repeat stori anymore. '' 
 `` she was just as agil and quick and it was even hard to tell she had a limb miss , `` said willey , who live in sacramento . 
 `` but it make it harder for stanford in term of public relat . 
 lawmak told clifford , the ultim washington insid , they found it hard to believ he did n't know that the foreign-own bank of credit and commerc intern had exercis illicit control over the big u.s. bank he head . 
 although it is hard to say exact how mani peopl might do this , the compani -- world odyssey of los alto -- is plan to build such a project here amid the deep canyon and steep red sandston cliff and spire of zion nation park and at mani other park and monument around the countri . 
 it 's kind of hard to run when you re constant take the ball out ( of bound ) . '' 
 they are get harder to find becaus of their popular . 
 `` but it 's hard for me to take it from anoth person. '' 
 western may have a hard time differenti authent spiritu leader from those prone to exploit , he say , becaus we have a differ way of judg thing -- a way of judgment base on materi . 
 `` it 's hard to do a trick like this , this far out , `` bagian said . 
 with more single-par household and more mother in two-par famili who work outsid the home nowaday , it 's harder for parent to squeez in time to meet with teacher , mineta ad . 
 bias is hard to overcom . 
 with more bmws and mercedes per squar inch than ani place this side of munich , it 's hard to believ that saratoga was onc a rootin ' tootin ' lumber town where , as one newspap observ , `` there were seven saloon in the villag and to be 'a drunk from saratoga ' was the last word in drunkenness. '' 
 `` peopl are final realli talk about this stuff and that 's great , but it is still hard to explain to some men whi these thing are offens , `` said seavello , the third-year stanford medic student . 
 a decis in favor of the landown would make it harder for govern to enact and enforc law to protect the environ . 
 `` it 's hard to underestim the import of this paper , `` said dr. david williamson of the center for diseas control . 
 `` it 's hard to tell , `` ross said . 
 i ve never been good with breviti , / so i ll add just a littl levity. / more vers i guess i must recit ; / there are some thing which are hard to right / so pleas forgiv me if i go on in this fashion / on this issu a few of you might tend toward passi ( o ) n ' . . . / you know if you keep go on this way , / for a poetic licens , one will have to pay ! 
 inflat , hard to estim becaus mani price are control , has been from 30 to 60 percent a year in mani key commod , say ilya prizel , an associ professor at john hopkin school for advanc intern studi . 
 `` it was hard to figur out what they were up to. '' 
 left-hand steve whitak made his long-await profession basebal debut friday night , but it was hard to tell who was more anxious at game time -- whitak or his pitch coach , gari luca . 
 the last few , he said , have been hard becaus more and more men seem to be arriv daili . 
 hackett , make his first start sinc he turn asid 48 of 52 shot in a 4-3 loss in last friday 's season open in vancouv , said he had a hard time get into the flow of the game becaus of the long layoff . 
 in dual meet , we were hard to beat. '' 
 both side agre that it 's hard to make a live on $ 5 to $ 6 an hour . 
 still , the simpl fact that a blind man could compos the soundtrack to a film he ca n't see is a wonder that make this album hard to dismiss . 
 `` as angri as the busi communiti may be , until this industri begin make profit in line with other industri it 's hard to make a case '' for lower fare . 
 `` see it on televis , see exact what women go through and then see the verdict is send a clear messag : it is veri , veri hard and you re not go to get anyth out of it , `` said melani boyd of san francisco women against rape . 
 there are so mani excel australian plant it is hard to choos among them . 
 all three are among the grow number who have fallen on time so hard they have had to ask for help to feed and hous their famili . 
 with one stroke of his veto pen , gov. pete wilson has made it harder for immigr to learn english and becom more product californian . 
 although cupertino 's suppos affluenc make that figur hard to believ , mani peopl in the citi are face such oner hous cost that they run out of money for food , said norl . 
 hard as this is on the soul of the artist , it doe , howev , halt the viewer 's frantic search for familiar theme and object . 
 it is hard to say it now , but that 's how it was. '' 
 `` it 's hard for peopl to concentrate. '' 
 `` it 's hard to win , `` he declar , `` when you ca n't get an inch on fourth-and-inches. '' 
 the hardest prepar i ve ever done was for number one , also call pro , about a footbal player , in 1968 . 
 if you tri to unit communiti of interest around the downtown , it 's hard not to end up with a major hispan district . 
 and even if they did n't , `` it 's hard to make a legal case if everyon sign the proper form , `` say soocher . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that i had 11 tryout with eight team befor land a job with kansa citi , `` loweri said . 
 piniella never thought repeat could be so hard . 
 `` it 's incred hard if the woman is a higher achiev and make mayb more than the man. '' 
 there was a sens of isol , of not fit in , that was hard to overcom , she said . 
 it 's hard to continu the momentum . 
 `` i think it will be lot harder to get physician to sign up for the reserv or stay in the reserv . 
 it 's not hard to figur where cash get her perspect . 
 `` it 's not the same team i face last year or the year befor , so it 's realli hard to explain , `` said hawkin , obvious not want to analyz this thing to death . 
 `` you have to wait a long time for your next game , and it 's hard to stay sharp. '' 
 that 's a beauti qualiti and it 's hard to find : a man commit to marriag . 
 `` it 's hard now , in hindsight , to say that this guy would ever have respond to ration pressur like sanction , `` say democrat advis michael mccurri . 
 `` it 's hard to defin what it 's do for me becaus i eat well , get enough sleep and exercis the best i can. '' 
 she has a hard time get around but has help at home . 
 the humve climb a 60-degre grade , is hard to flip and run in ice , mud , snow and , of cours , sand . 
 the standard gas plasma screen was replac by an electroluminesc display ; the gas plasma screen was easi to read but overh quick , and astronaut reject the replac liquid crystal display as hard to read . 
 to complic matter , reader had a hard time find alpin lace lean n ' free . 
 use statist evid and interview , gordon make a good case for how hard it is to care . 
 alleg that the propos edenval amend repres the most signific chang in land use polici in san jose in 20 year are hard to fathom . 
 `` it 's hard for a parent to think about a child be put in that situat , `` he say . 
 on wednesday night , a new group of oppon emerg to argu that the center should not be name after mceneri becaus no one would recogn it and the convent center would therefor be harder to market . 
 as i start the long descent , which was harder than the ascent , someon told me the oldest person to reach the summit was 74 year old . 
 if you have n't seen dame edna , it 's kind of hard to describ her . 
 `` in the entir downtown area , we do n't get ani aluminum can and it 's hard to believ that nobodi in that area recycl ani can at all , `` said janet foreman , recycl coordin . 
 is hard to see how the situat could be otherwis . 
 it 's veri hard to reconcil the two but the crusad , who were onc the jazz crusad , were also onc a fair formid band . 
 as a sluggish , uneven recoveri begin in the u.s. economi , wall street analyst say it benefit are especi hard to see in servic busi . 
 `` there 's been numer theft of ostrich and emus all over texa and georgia , and they re extrem hard to trace , `` said malcom wilk , a milam counti sheriff 's depart investig . 
 he conced that ani democrat will have a hard time beat bush . 
 it is hard to argu for peac from a seal room . 
 and as a man get older , boxer find it harder to keep in train . 
 yet peopl in the surround neighborhood have strong emot tie to each campus -- and each campus can be expect to draw vocifer support in a seri of public hear that start monday and are to culmin on feb. 28 with hard decis by the school board . 
 find a new job is hard , but more peopl are plant root in field where they lack experi . 
 what is hard is find a shortstop or catcher for less than five buck who wo n't hurt you. '' 
 although he acknowledg that conclus evid of discrimin is hard to find , lanto said the anecdot form a `` distress pattern '' uniqu to japanes compani . 
 it 's hard to believ that this compromis will be ani more durabl than the other propos sinc the foundat began to pursu a plan to add 45 , 000 squar feet to it clinic and research facil . 
 that was hard to get to , `` say erni piini of san jose , a retir electr engin who has seen 11 eclips in the past 20 year . 
 not ecstat , but with the justifi satisfact of someon who has achiev within 100 year more than his forebear dream of ; with the self-confid of someon who firm believ , even in time when it was veri hard inde to believ , that the day would come when the whole world -- includ our enemi -- would accept the realiti of israel . 
 most are easi to grow , but the task of transplant the desir nativ tree from the wood to your lawn can be a hard one . 
 land and labor cost add up quick , and , in the event of failur , it 's hard to convert the build into other use , eisenzimm said . 
 in the last two year , time have been hard ; everyon is on a downsw . 
 `` mental he 's fine , confid , play great , and it 's hard to do , but i think it 's good for him , `` la russa said . 
 what is much harder to replic and even more crucial is the under process technolog requir to make and constant improv new generat of product . 
 mr kennedi , howev , take offic at a time when problem are more subtl and the answer are harder to find . 
 tilburi said he has heard of some victim bid on home , but that has been primarili in the hill for hard-to-find three- and four-bedroom hous . 
 `` it 's hard to say whether there are more women be abus or whether there 's just a lot more awar and women know that we re here , `` lee-siegmann said . 
 a few specialti store ( such as tex 's toy in mountain view ) carri moon shoe , but they are hard to find . 
 `` i was complet fool , `` pat admit , not easi for a guy who 's been hard to fool for 62 year . 
 seven out of 10 municip predict that it would be harder for them to meet their financi need than it was last year . 
 so fewer , more inadequ prepar player are be ask to do a job that is harder to do than befor . 
 `` he is the hardest person in the leagu to guard , `` oliv said . 
 she dress nice , too -- heel and jew in the middl of the day at home , june cleaver-styl , which make it all the harder to pictur her root through the dumpster behind k mart . 
 `` it 's a gray area and it 's hard to defin . 
 after 17 month as a hostag , david jacobsen said the hardest thing to do was allow himself to be emot again -- particular with peopl he love . 
 there 's a fine line between stimul sale with new product and alien custom by put out too much product , as compani such as atari discov the hard way . 
 time may be hard but dream live on in the mind of the faith -- faith lotto player , that is . 
 caff verona is a hard place to pigeonhol , but do n't let that put you off . 
 it is hard and pain to believ , but perhap he realli think so . 
 also , fax modem softwar is almost alway harder to learn to use than a fax machin is . 
 of cours , presid sometim learn the hard way that deleg can be danger . 
 `` we have profession peopl on our staff to analyz the bid , and we ve been ask by the mayor to do that , `` he said , ad that legal liabil is hard to prove . 
 it would be hard to conceiv of three more differ presenc . 
 `` is it go to be hard for me ? '' 
 presid mikhail gorbachev has warn of a hard winter and urg the west to contribut food as his countri make the pain move from a central economi to a market system . 
 the secret itself was just as hard . 
 the shamir 's daili life write the decalogu , which is written on two plate , the hard fact of life , and all fact are `` one '' . 
 injuri asid , it 's hard at time for smaller school to field team in all the sport they 'd like to offer . 
 `` the thing about bill even then , `` marchibroda recal wednesday of their time togeth in baltimor , `` is that when you gave him some work , he never ask how hard is it or how long will it take . 
 and becaus the main republican just spent six year on the panel that overse the cia and other aspect of american spycraft , it 's hard to decid where fact end and fiction begin . 
 still , it 's hard to overlook nutrit . 
 from the south bay , it 's hard to know what to wear for a jaunt to the northeast corridor . 
 peopl do n't realiz how hard it was for me to miss wimbledon . 
 `` it 's hard to see how you effect carri them out if you do n't have a govern you can work with. '' 
 sometim the kremlin revolut was harder to follow than an old `` twin peak '' show . 
 `` it 's hard go back to a place you call home that 's a home no longer -- a place where you laid down roots. '' 
 sound bite : bo jackson still walk with crutch and lament about excruci slow of his recoveri from a hip injuri : ; `` mental , it 's hard becaus i 'm not abl to run yet , `` he say . 
 some may be hard to latch or unlatch , the nation highway traffic safeti administr said . 
 `` honest , it 's hard to keep track of all the litig that 's go on , `` said drew peck , who follow both compani for the secur firm donaldson , lufkin & jenrett . 
 it 's hard to see how . 
 `` it 's veri hard for me to get anyth done in the build , `` said demarcus , who has spent $ 310 alon on lunch with one staff person , mariann payn , sinc januari 1990 . 
 these are much harder to get -- just about imposs . 
 it 's hard to believ at first , but there realli are drawback to becom well-known . 
 the 16 year sinc he met landi have been the musician 's hardest , with wilson posit as a pawn in a battl for control between landi -- who has term himself brian 's `` good father '' -- and the beach boy camp , which is ask the court to appoint a legal conserv . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that the presid is go to have to make a decis on what kind of export condit are go be place on cheap work station , but it look like this is go to happen , `` said roszel thomsen ii , a washington lawyer who repres work station maker . 
 the giant end shawon dunston 's 14-game hit streak thursday , but pitcher may find it hard to stop his salari drive . 
 i am alway amaz that peopl are amaz that i actual cook from gourmet -- the common assumpt is that it is too hard and time-consum . 
 robert reitherman , a half moon bay-bas consult who recent complet a studi of a 1972 state law that effect prohibit build within 50 feet of an activ fault , said the new law would be much harder to implement becaus there 's less agreement among scientist about which area are subject to sever ground motion , liquefact or landslid than about the locat of fault . 
 `` it 's art and it 's hard to understand , `` oneal said . 
 but with so mani other offer similar appeal to viewer , it is hard to see how `` eddi dodd '' can win the final verdict of judg nielsen . 
 while some men may find her hard to take , her venom is rare direct at them . 
 `` it is hard to excus his blind fatalist view '' that the u.s. and the ussr would forev be mortal enemi lock in global struggl , bradley said , cite gate ' speech and classifi analys . 
 plus , it 'd be hard for the general to grant interview from washington , sinc he 's still on duti in the persian gulf . 
 but on the whole it is hard to imagin disast in which the victim ought to be better prepar financi to take care of themselv . 
 sinc we know what 's come , howev , it 's hard to focus much on this prelud . 
 but most research agre that the small , year-to-year fluctuat link to human activ would be hard to spot . 
 it 's hard to tell , `` hargrov said . 
 yes , one ( a boy ) did give me a hard time , in that he demand to know what rain was when i forbad him to go outsid . 
 there 's anoth slice of realiti as well , one that 's harder to cover up becaus the casualti are right here at home . 
 `` it 's hard when you practic run forward for a year and then start run backward again . 
 `` the no. 1 thing ( prospect contest ) say when they come here is , 'i ca n't believ how hard this test is , ' `` say harv selsbi , wheel contest coordin . 
 so funni , it 's hard to believ creator jay ward and bill scott , both of whom die in the 80s , did origin episod for onli three season , two on abc and one on nbc , in the late 50s and earli 60s . 
 three-year-old chip maker cyrix corp. is learn hard lesson at a veri young age . 
 `` it 's hard to know what you re up against without go in there . 
 it 's just too hard to do . 
 you build a list , complet with clue and phonet misspel of word : if your child has troubl spell `` difficult , `` give him a clue such as `` hard '' and misspel the word as `` dificult. '' 
 it is hard to imagin a better bargain in softwar . 
 it 's hard these day to pick a good day for an a 's pitcher to struggl , but sunday might have been the worst day for ron darl to lose his first game in an a 's uniform . 
 a congression aid said the north korean want a congression deleg to receiv the remain , as in an earlier exchang , but said such a high-rank group would be hard to conven each time remain are turn over . 
 what measur help the articl offer owner is hard to discern -- unless you have no desir to spend time compil name and rank player . 
 `` mayb the feder equival of sell your boat is to make some veri hard and sometim pain decis , reduc some of thing that are nice to have but ( you ) do n't need to have. '' 
 so i decid to stick to my own thing , but it 's hard to do my thing there. l.a. women are veri closet becaus of the industri ( pressur ) . 
 a few of the control are on the dashboard to the left of the steer wheel , which put them out of sight and make them hard to oper while drive . 
 `` it is extrem hard for ani athlet to be injur , `` say brick . 
 `` it 's veri hard for us to vote on this law . 
 bread is so good and everyth tast so much better here that it is hard not to eat too much '' , said the secretari ruefulli eye her extra pound . 
 there have been no report default involv the paper held by the tax-fre fund in their 10 year-plus histori , but it is harder to evalu credit qualiti for tax-fre fund than for taxabl fund , say russel e. long , assist vice presid for standard & poor 's mutual fund group in new york . 
 `` it will not be 54-0 , but it will be a hard game for them , `` lentz said . 
 if the fund rate is go to go all over the place , it make the job of tell much harder. '' 
 they may have stolen the item for a buyer who reneg on pay or may have decid the item would be too hard to sell , polic said . 
 it has been a hard road back but now , with plenti of polit ammunit given him by the govern in recent session , he is lead the opposit with skill and assur and is a match for the prime minist across the floor . 
 `` it 's a littl bit harder than it has been befor , ( but ) as long as there is a strateg aspect to it , ( allianc ) are move along as they have been in the past , `` said sanford robertson , found partner of robertson , stephen & co. , a san francisco invest bank firm . 
 time be hard , and distanc and expens outweigh fond sentiment , the regret are 100 percent . 
 yes , today 's a sad day and the day ahead will be harder day . 
 it 's hard to believ that neither matt nor furri would realiz that fli mission against the arab in a u.s.-mark f-15 , while the unit state is studious neutral , might have a disastr effect on nation polici . 
 it 's hard to say . 
 `` it 's hard to believ you could n't make some effort to consolid them and not save money , `` say brownstein . 
 this make life hard both for japan 's high-pay consum and foreign compani that face steep cost and other obstacl in break into the market . 
 in this rural communiti of 6 , 200 peopl , imperi food product was the biggest employ , and the 225 job it provid , most in the $ 5- to $ 5.50-an-hour rang , are hard to come by . 
 it is hard to see how trade pressur on one product could be interpret in china as a protest against non-trad relat human right abus . 
 the differ is , if they can call you a nazi and make it stick -- tough , realli hard . 
 sometim the hardest thing in the world to do is . . . huh ? 
 we made some hard choic . 
 the day of bull connor seem so remot now that it 's hard ( even for a son of the south who began cover sit-in in the summer of 1960 ) to recal the climat of offici and unoffici menac that king and his comrad and follow had to overcom . 
 it 's hard be a child star and have to grow up , but she and i understand each other and all about it. '' 
 sinc januari , howev , it has gotten harder to live the homeless life here . 
 but it is hard to deni that someth is go on . 
 it 's someth to hear it on tv , but it 's hard to cope with when you come into school and see that empti seat . 
 saddam is hard to remov in part becaus he and his follow came to power through a militari coup and are determin to keep other from follow the same blueprint . 
 while employ are reward the servic of persian gulf veteran , they might also rememb the longer , harder , loneli servic of vietnam veteran . 
 anoth user demand that 's like to outpac technolog is for better handwrit recognit , one of the hardest problem in pen comput . 
 but , second-guess anyway , it 's hard to fathom whi harri ' band , the nash rambler , was n't given more visibl in ad . 
 this is harder to prove , becaus the film hous still make money on the popcorn . 
 furtney said he found it hard to believ that sp could be accus of be uncoop in the 76 spill . 
 it is hard to gaug citi channel 's impact has becaus no audienc rate for the cabl station are avail . 
 he 's receiv ton of public for his achiev , and it 's hard to miss the mac format of his paper . 
 written by univers of north carolina hous professor michael stegman , the 144-page treatis conclud that `` privat public hous is not necessarili a bad idea , but it is veri cost , veri hard to do right and has veri limit application. '' 
 it 's go to be hard rais a daughter on my own , `` the woman said . 
 drive through the hill of oakland -- or saratoga , los alto , los gato -- in these year of drought , it was hard to resist a fleet thought : ; my god , what on earth would happen if a spark got loos on this land ? 
 democrat conced in advanc that the bitter fight over thoma would make it particular hard for them to get the 10 gop vote they would have need to prevail . 
 `` it would be real hard to write a job descript for special assist to the presid and general manag , which is willi 's formal titl , `` say the giant ' duffi jen . 
 the final step of her quest to becom a triathlet was the hardest . 
 it 's harder to extend your bodi when slide feet first . 
 the psycholog implic here are even harder to visual than small type . 
 this is the toughest lie to rebut , when one is out there on the cut edg , all alon with a stori we all found hard to believ . 
 `` my wife complain i should be out make money , but this has becom such an infatu thing , it 's hard not to do it all the time , `` said paul dupont , 48 . 
 it is hard to get agit about extravag parad dure a week when henri kissing play guest weatherman on the cbs morn show . 
 and becaus of the church 's architectur and locat , it 's hard to imagin a build in san jose that 's more import to preserv . 
 i felt -- i just -- it was just -- i mean , it 's hard for me to describ . 
 it was hard to find a jewish heroin -- `` a posit , well-balanc , success , admir jewish woman. '' 
 most hindus prefer the time-honor cremat by wood fire , although some find it hard to wit . 
 littl peopl , howev , -- like kyle , 10 , and daria , 3 1/2 -- are much harder to put asid . 
 `` it 's just hard to know what state larri will be in when he doe come back , if there is ani brain damag '' day said . 
 controversi legisl aim at make it harder for manufactur to control the sale and servic polici of discount retail clear a major hurdl wednesday when the senat vote 63-35 to cut off debat and bring the measur to a vote later this week . 
 it 's harder for minor non-profit group to say no when other donor stay away . 
 farmer , who depend on bee to pollin crop , and beekeep fear the african bee ' econom damag even more than their sting becaus they are hard to manag and devot much of their energi to swarm and creat new coloni . 
 chip hard to trace ; detect complain on one hand that there are no mark on the small chip that can be use to effect trace their origin ; and on the other , that the chip can wind up anywher in the world within hour . 
 school nutritionist say the shape program and individu school face mani obstacl that make serv a healthi lunch harder than it look , among them : ; ( box ) a fast-food generat of children so suscept to advertis that they wo n't eat food that doe n't look as though it came from mcdonald 's . 
 the manufactur warn you about this , but it 's hard to compens . 
 `` this action will put more american grain and other food into the pipelin now , so that it will arriv at it destin in time to be of assist dure the hard winter face the soviet peopl , `` bush said in a statement . 
 one of the hardest thing he 's face is lose some of his friend . 
 we ambiti , discont girl of 30 year ago had a hard time imagin how to imagin ourselv . 
 vote : 5-4 ; crimin : made it harder for n n n y y y y y y ; defend to make second feder ; appeal . 
 bombard by bad news , disturb by threat of terror , confound by an economi that has skid into recess and anger by elect offici who postur and pontif rather than step up to the hard question of deficit , ethic and account -- peopl are upset . 
 but the inevit of cheaper technolog and competit have made it harder to be envious of laser printer owner . 
 then the senat pass a budget resolut with a provis that would make it still harder to rais tax to pay for extens , and no one challeng that claus . 
 `` i had a hard time adjust to be a bench player , `` herr acknowledg . 
 was n't hard to understand . 
 the draft did n't seem particular encourag -- i grade it a b- , at best -- and the hardest thing to overcom in the nfl is a success of weak draft . 
 in either direct , the wild , wind-swept sceneri is so mesmer that it can be hard to keep your eye on the narrow road . 
 but while campus administr worri over spech code that place a civil framework around debat , it 's hard to find the debat . 
 despit this , it 's hard to imagin these tape will caus more than a rippl with anyon other than die-hard fan . 
 of all these uncertainti , the most serious and the hardest to fathom , in greenspan 's view , is the continu failur of bank to make loan to creditworthi custom . 
 we have a four-year deficit to make up and that 's hard to do with one good march . # 
 `` this recess has been especi difficult for media compani and particular hard on the second newspap compani in a market , `` buzzetta said . 
 but such reform are high unlik to pass , which show , for all of wilson 's appar bold , how hard it is to go back to the simpl , account form of govern onc consid commonplac . 
 but it is general agre that baker will have a harder time find new job in their field , and , if they do , the closest major bakeri is at least 35 mile away . 
 but it 's hard to tell whether his fellow senat are applaud his gift as an orat or his masteri over the pork barrel . 
 that could be easi to do in the 40-member senat , where the 26 democrat and one independ hold two-third of the vote , but much harder in the 80-member assembl , where the 47 democrat are seven vote short of a two-third margin . 
 `` but it will be harder for us to do that. '' 
 and in the end , it is hard to read this book without anger . 
 it 's harder to write about peter jen and tom brokaw . 
 `` the first semest was hard , but i realli tri . 
 the coach said he 'd never done anyth harder than what he was about to do . 
 arrest peopl might have been especi hard to do in the oakland fire , consid some author actual welcom some peopl who ignor the evacu order . 
 furthermor , the white hous bill would have offer state 3-for-1 fund for major highway but onli 2-for-1 for public transit , make highway hard for cash-starv state to turn down . 
 marc girardelli , a favorit along with tomba , fell on the first run , the victim of a hard and unusu slick cours . 
 if someon with a good imagin tri hard , he could have seen downtown san jose 's park avenu and almaden boulevard as 50 driveway court sunday . 
 worship leader are find it increas hard to wring money from church budget for serious music , becaus pastor and other member of the hierarchi are unsympathet , messer said . 
 time are hard in the advertis busi . 
 it is hard to imagin a loss so total that the discoveri of a mailbox , a broken teacup , a tomato plant send tear of joy stream down the face . 
 presid had set for himself the task , which he believ vital , of awaken the u. s. and it alli to the hard and complex effort necessari to shift that balanc . 
 well dug-in infantri are hard to destroy by aerial bombard . 
 like other averag famili , we have a hard time put away a few dollar everi month for our children 's colleg educ . 
 these requir call for almost superhuman self-restraint and magnanim on both side , and that will be hard to achiev if the physic segreg of the two race continu . 
 `` it seem to me we ve done the hardest part , `` said assemblywoman delain eastin , d-union citi . 
 after all , if exist downtown busi fail , they may be hard to replac : wit the pavilion 's problem rent space . 
 but while they are hard to spot , the chines pant do n't last long . 
 `` it 's realli hard to see anyth much below 9 percent . 
 find room for more kid is hard enough , but the locat of this far-flung develop add cost . 
 `` onc a kid is too far gone , it 's hard to put them back on the right track , `` lindsay said . 
 it 's hard to break this to you , guy , but volum control doe not sound like it 's your onli problem . 
 we just tri to make thing hard , `` said humphri . 
 phat nguyen , a vietnames field repres for heritag cablevis , learn this the hard way when he began track down local relat of the refuge tran had tape in the philippin . 
 `` it will be harder this semest but it will also allow us to see the immediaci of the issue. '' 
 men will to sail at all into water where wooden ship could be crush like egg were hard to find . 
 `` the farther we move , the harder the fight willbecom , `` predict lt. gen. walter boomer , command of the more than 30 , 000 u.s. marin who pour into kuwait on sunday . 
 i had a hard time accept that in my kid . 
 for me or ani woman listen , it can be veri hard sometimes. '' 
 nelson attempt to soften his remark wednesday , say , `` pete play onli two minut , so it was hard for him to look good , but , of cours , we lose the game if i do n't get him out of there. '' 
 -- mitch richmond ; `` this was the hardest trade i ve ever made . 
 gorbachev is not the onli soviet offici prove hard to reach . 
 `` you re go to have to learn the hard way '' was someth els my parent told me . 
 it 's hard to rememb a time of so much confus on the state of the economi and the financi market . 
 good number of steelhead are hold , but they are extrem hard to catch . 
 air forc specif call for the new plane to have about doubl the rang of the f-15 fighter , which it replac , and be more maneuver and harder for enemi radar to detect . 
 he 's found it hard to be both a mother and a father to his highway . 
 brett butler caution that there are near 100 game remain , but it is hard for him to ignor the fact . 
 the hard part is find out who did it. '' 
 ( hbox ) ; if fresh fish is hard to find , frozen fish of good qualiti is tasti prepar this way . 
 san francisco , like other citi , has had to instal bus-stop seat that have been engin so that they are hard to sleep on . 
 whoever is take the plant -- and wherev they end up -- the bottom line is that it 's veri hard for homeown and other to protect their plant from snatcher . 
 it is a book that tri veri hard to stay ground in number , a sensibl book whose goal is to tell us when we re be silli . 
 `` they say the world out there is hard , `` said sen. jay rockefel , d-w.va. , chairman of the nation commiss on children . 
 detmer hedg when ask to critiqu his perform -- `` it 's hard to rate on a person basi when you have 10 other guy out there , `` he said -- but was happi that the cougar open against the no. 1 team . 
 i maintain if peopl do n't have the mean to support whatev children they have , have anoth will onli make thing harder . 
 it is hard to imagin how to patch hole when they run through the foundat of your life . 
 `` even if georg bush would like to play it both way , he 's go to find it much harder to get away with , `` said wendi sherman , execut director of emili 's list , a fund-rais group for democrat women who support abort right . 
 are give their doctor a hard time . 
 the reason presid avoid the subject is obvious , accord to ami davi , an econom historian at purdu univers : `` onc you predict a recess it is not hard for it to becom a self-fulfil prophecy. '' 
 `` it 's harder to turn negat percept into posit than the other way around. '' 
 i got off , cross the squar , and on the side direct opposit the gate found a good restaur , hard to come by in this part of the citi . 
 it 's hard to be there and not play . 
 some lawyer said the wilson propos would make it harder for women to get job . 
 figur were hard to come by , said one of the report 's three author , william arkin . 
 it is veri hard to pick up these littl piec of candi without smear the furnitur . 
 `` unless he has had a chang in his think about forestri , `` young said , `` we re have a hard time think we will go to the tabl . 
 the plan , file wednesday with the feder bankruptci court in new york , would forc the maker of steel and aerospac equip to auction part of it oper just as buyer may be hard to find . 
 there 's so much go on backstag it 's hard to tell . 
 with the constant shift on the 49er ' offens line , it was hard to know what to expect . 
 but i thought you said properti trade are a good way for an owner to get rid of hard-to-sel incom properti . 
 yet despit the dead pound his former countrymen are take now , khazzoom find it hard to muster much sympathi for them or iraq . 
 although american troop -- men and women -- were deploy to the persian gulf in august , essenti still were hard to come by as late as januari . 
 it was hard to figur her . 
 to be fair , it 's hard to describ ani tv game show on paper , no matter how clever and divert it may be , and not make it sound idiot . 
 actual it has been out for a few month , but i did n't look at it right away becaus of how littl i like wordperfect on the pc ( it 's power but hard to use ) and becaus of the bad memori of wordperfect 1.0 for the mac . 
 even the kennedi clan would have a hard time keep up with this type of disgrac behavior . 
 it is not just that in the middl of a revolut it is hard to predict the futur . 
 i was go to say that sometim the hardest thing in the world to do is get a good night 's sleep . 
 `` the hardest thing about that is keep my grade up. '' 
 on the tape , most of the guest are off-camera and it is hard to tell whether they fought back . 
 they went to nusseibeh , 41 , one of the west bank 's senior , most sophist polit leader , to ask him some `` hard question '' about his current polit view . 
 `` it 's hard to see one of the guy go , `` he said . 
 now come the hard part : comparison shop among lender to get the best loan . 
 if loan coven are bent or broken , you may be in for a hard time that get progress wors . 
 ani deal could prove hard to consumm becaus one member of the ethic panel -- sen. jess helm , r-n.c. -- appear unlik to go along . 
 1987 cabernet sauvignon , columbia valley : sweet cherri aroma ; full-bodi , live , soft , without a hard tannic edg ; $ 14 . 
 what 's so hard about write 120 page of most white space ? 
 `` and , if you ca n't get someon to complain , it 's hard to start ani action against these kind of bar , `` he said . 
 `` good babi sitter are hard to find , are n't they ? '' 
 with fresh , quick-cook pasta wide avail , it 's hard to find mani quicker dish . 
 vincent said `` it 's hard to convinc peopl there are financi problem , `` given the huge tv contract basebal sign last year and the four-year , $ 21 million contract that the red sox gave pitcher roger clemen last week . 
 `` america has flung itself again into one of those spasm of passion moral debat that nation more toler of human frailti find so hard to understand , `` the sunday time of london said sunday in a report that carri the headlin `` talk dirty. '' 
 his basic messag : crack is not as hard as it seem to an outsid , and it often goe undetect by legitim user of `` crack '' comput . 
 but it will also be a littl harder becaus citi and counti offici opt not to build a bypass for express train . 
 but if the 49er do n't win their next two game , against the ram and raider , you can bet it will be much harder to believ . 
 sometim it 's hard to fit the piec of a soap-opera plot togeth . 
 and economist suspect it will be harder than in previous recess to get consum back into store and auto showroom . 
 kellar said that the general public has a hard time relat to footbal player ' athlet gear . 
 `` it is hard to know whether he is accommod the white hous or if this is just the sensibl thing to do , `` say allan meltzer , an economist at carnegie-mellon univers in pittsburgh and a longtim fed-watch . 
 but attorney warn that becaus antitrust violat are so hard to prove , the vast major of these suit are won by the defend . 
 if you need to cash out befor the matur date , they could be hard to sell , and you might lose money if you are forc to sell at the wrong time . 
 a former player said , `` it 's not hard to switch . 
 `` the hardest part about learn a languag is express yourself in it , `` green said . 
 the hardest thing for children ( and adult ) to get use to in this system is that it is not base on the usual 0-100 rang , as is the system of percent , for exampl . 
 `` it 's hard to compar the defend . 
 `` i just have a real hard time with us tell everyon what to do to stay safe and how to do it , `` she said . 
 but an editor 's note said that in some place where mani parti member are religi believ `` it 's hard to get . . . member togeth . . . ( for ) meet . 
 `` if you re not from a high incom bracket , it 's veri hard , `` said lauvinia , a nurs who work from midnight to 8 a.m. at kaiser hospit in hayward , where her husband also work . 
 it 's hard to take denni the menac that serious . 
 `` it 's been real hard , but you got to keep go , `` lopez said . 
 `` everybodi recogn it would be a lot harder to move while the diplomaci is go on , `` an offici remark thursday . 
 but the nativ flame is hard to snuff . 
 `` two- and three-year-old are hardest , `` hope say . 
 it 's a littl hard to have a rivalri when the all-tim seri consist of one game play 39 year ago . 
 it 's hard to believ singleton is onli push 24 . 
 in fact , he will have a hard time fulfil ani of his campaign goal as long as the rest of the council continu to strive for high-dens hous along transport corridor and a high-profil downtown . 
 it 's hard to function understand that the principl of man-to-man work no matter what . 
 eagl redux ; `` it 's hard to deni peopl like the beat of just plain rock , `` add olson . 
 `` he had a veri hard time deal with it . 
 those item are go to be hard to find and they re go to get expensive. '' 
 and it 's hard to ignor the debt from the buyout , a burden onli made heavier by the nationwid real estat slump . 
 today was hard to swallow , `` welch said . 
 saddam possibl could re-emerg as a region power , but sure it will be far harder for him to rearm than it was to arm . 
 but sudden , which two has becom a question he may find hard to answer . 
 his book , which do not even explain how to win a war , are hard to find and even more difficult to read . 
 the sophomor jinx ; `` in a way the second movi is harder than the first becaus there is that pressur to do as well or to do better , `` hain say on a fast lunch break at the cbs-mtm studio . 
 so it can be argu that it should n't be much harder for today 's player to deviat from the statist norm as dramat as dimaggio or william did in 41 . 
 price fluctuat make it hard to set it earli . 
 lucill ball found out the hard way ; likewis mari tyler moor , sever time . 
 costa quick apolog , claim the champagn in his eye and juanita 's white cap made it hard to see in the locker room . 
 `` it 's like read a book ; it 's hard for me to relat . 
 but the accept of farm-rais venison is hard to gaug becaus of what some in the industri call the `` bambi factor , `` mean the reluct of some american to eat deer , sometim perceiv , not as a food sourc , but as a cudd woodsi creatur . 
 browning-ferri industri , which serv the area , has a varieti of rate for those on fix incom and resid of hard-to-serv area . 
 sometim the slight is so ambigu or unintent that it is hard to confront . 
 there were a few peopl in the bar , elder , well-off , artist , who , you felt , had made a hard bargain for give up . 
 `` it 's aw hard to scrape dime and quarter off the bottom . 
 it 's not hard , and it get easier with a littl practic . 
 but boroff said it would n't have been hard to prove pointer capabl of child neglect . 
 regardless , it 's hard to believ the paint would offend anyon . 
 they just have a swing lifestyl that make it hard for more than one youngster to hang on . 
 the door : this may be music to the ear of those of you like geneviev sheffer , who wrote to say she has stop go to the fremont main librari by herself becaus the front door are too hard to open . 
 would be his hardest year , she knew , and he miss his father desper . 
 exact figur are hard to come by , but unit airlin estim that this year it will carri more than 100 , 000 unaccompani minor . 
 `` i 'm a christian and a cathol and i realli believ that , and it is requir of me to forgiv no matter how hard that is , and i am determin to do that. '' 
 `` it 's hard to believ it 's gone on so long , `` said monday , 29 , one of three bay area relat of hostag taken in beirut . 
 mark foster , a polici analyst for consum action , a san francisco consum advocaci group , said the appoint will `` make our work that much harder. '' 
 ask how mani other offici of his rank , at the peak of the chines polit system , still believ in marxism , he said : `` it 's hard to say , but probabl veri few . 
 even on a small-scal michelin map , marnoz is hard to find . 
 i trust him and am sure noth sexual is go on but i do feel threaten by that woman and find their friendship hard to accept . 
 there is a shortag of child care in the state , and low-incom famili would find it that much harder to find afford care . 
 `` we ve alway known some of the circl were hoax , but i find it hard to believ two men could have creat hundr of these circl , which often appear on the same night in wide differ part of the country. '' 
 traffic engin stress that the plan is onli a list of option , and that politician will have to make the hard choic . 
 had a hard time make him understand that it was farouk she wish to meet . 
 said edberg : `` beat john on grass is alway go to be hard . 
 `` they ve come up with so mani big kick it 's hard to say a bad word about the field-goal unit. '' 
 i 'm sure it will be hard for him to leav after 14 year at nbc , but he ought to do it befor it 's too late and the studio stop call . 
 one of the hardest element for outsid to understand is the relationship between saddam and the peopl he rule , analyst say . 
 it 's hard to tell if a stori happen in this odd littl film , but an offic romanc may be take place : `` pssst ! 
 there are hard question rais by peopl of conscienc : ; was the conflict a war or a massacr ? 
 is hard not to lay most of the blame for their failur on the pope . 
 the central messag is nice sum up in a quot from poet e.e. cum : `` to be nobodi but yourself in a world which is do it best , night and day , to make you into everybodi els , is to fight the hardest fight a man can fight , and never stop fighting. '' 
 after a hard day 's night in a british court , appl comput inc. and appl corp decid to come togeth and settl a 2-year-old case pit the comput giant against the beatl . 
 -- gari l. bailey ; sunnyval ; overwork plagu the silicon valley ; the parallel to silicon valley execut is not hard to follow in `` japan fear epidem of death from overwork '' ( mercuri news , june 2 ) , but is a word to the wise suffici ? 
 ( check ) `` girl with babi do n't tend to get much respect -- it 's hard to date with a kid , `` say willean lockett who expect her second child in juli . 
 in the face of general admiring-to-glow review , iannon took on `` middl passag '' and conclud that it was `` hard to take ( johnson 's ) prize-win book serious as literature. '' 
 andi mutch , assist curat of the u.s. golf associ librari , say `` it is hard to prove , but it seem like a logic conclusion. '' 
 it is hard to believ that wast form with tube and needl invad his bodi is the same man . 
 the substanc of a success negoti , the give-and-tak need to make it work , is still hard to envisag . 
 pentagon spokesman pete william said , `` it 's veri hard to control the flow of cash onc they start to sell oil. '' 
 a parapleg park ranger and his climb partner are find their ascent of yosemit 's half dome a littl harder than they expect and will take an extra day to complet the climb . 
 it 's still hard to tell . 
 hammer said asian power was hard to achiev becaus asian neighborhood are general more dispers than hispan neighborhood . 
 the sweet smell of a free meal is hard to ignor . 
 social servic tend to be fragment , uncoordin , hard to access , overlap , bureaucrat . 
 there are mikhail and vladimir and bori and all sort of peopl with name we onc consid hard to pronounc . 
 problem hard to curb ; q your may 4 item pertain to public street and park is of particular interest to me . 
 truth is , it 's a lot harder than you think . 
 `` i thought it was as hard a trip as we ve ever taken . 
 it 's hard to make sleaz sound genuin , but korder doe . 
 that 's hard to believ -- but never should have been an issu . 
 this is harder work than cover with plastic . 
 the mani voic provid a `` you-are-ther '' effect that 's hard to match with ani structur . 
 sooth tune ; besid , if you do n't believ they re real , it 's hard to take the rest of the turtl lore serious , or to believ that the turtl have ditch their violent crime-fight imag in favor of more peac conflict resolut . 
 even if kevin doe play , it 's go to be hard for him to step back in and pick it up where he left off. '' 
 `` we could but it would be hard. '' 
 valuabl land ; `` it 's hard to build a cost-effici hotel that 's two stori . . . the land is worth a lot more , `` he said . 
 that can lead to an injuri that sidelin someon for week , even month , and get back in shape can be that much harder . 
 well this would be 100 time harder , `` said the offici , who estim the armi would have to send ten of thousand of soldier into baghdad . 
 it 's hard to say what 's exact behind all this . 
 `` it make it harder to move. '' 
 the hard way of peac . 
 in the dark , or even at dusk , it would be hard to tell them apart . 
 some think it wo n't make much differ in their ski , while other fear that it will make the ski hard to control . 
 with each pass day , that goal has becom harder to achiev . 
 `` as a result we have to sometim make hard decisions. '' 
 we recent had a hard time choos between the southwestern meat loaf on grill sourdough with jalapeno gravi ( $ 6 ) or the grill eggplant sandwich with roast pepper and pepper-jack chees ( $ 5.50 ) . 
 the m.o. was n't hard to deduc . 
 `` it 's veri hard to describ the feel parent get when we see our children , `` daniel said . 
 for the general populac , it might be hard to pictur run back roger craig in anyth other than a 49er uniform . 
 it 's how hard it will be to go back to biospher 1. '' 
 still , ideal is hard to maintain in the face of constant discourag -- and smith is sever discourag , time after time . 
 seem like that the indian python come out ahead becaus record of it growth have been made more care and frequent ; it respond except well to captiv and doe not reach proport that make it hard to keep . 
 `` but there will be anoth group that will march , `` she said , `` and when they do , it 's hard to say if there 's anyth they wo n't say. '' 
 -- d.k. , san jose ; a spider mite are hard to control . 
 `` it 's hard to believ that soviet politician do n't resort to dirti tricks. '' 
 `` but other will identifi with the old way of run the busi and find it hard to change. '' 
 japan , which feel the american are use debt forgiv to reward certain nation , complain that this polici encourag irrespons and make say no to other countri with similar problem much harder . 
 that young gun refer is hard to escap when look at monday night 's season open between the 49er and giant at the meadowland . 
 i wo n't be concern myself with his or the troop ' moral becaus , frank , the choic he and other like him have made is make it damn hard to maintain my own . 
 it 's hard to imagin -- at least on his part . 
 `` it 's kind of hard place a valu on it by describ it . 
 some analyst said the incid could make it harder for the two side to agre on a $ 2 billion standbi loan . 
 it 's hard to anticip your need for medic care , so buy the broadest polici you can afford . 
 `` the cours is just hard , `` he said . 
 some morn , caught in the sting , cold rain that pelt northern arkansa in march , it has been hard to make out the simpl metal plate that mark steve mason 's burial ground . 
 hammer 's home is v-shape -- somewhat like a stealth bomber -- and it 's hard to see from the flatland becaus of it low profil . 
 like a lot of those young kid out there , he 's have a real hard time function , `` she said . 
 despit the luxuri appoint , it 's not hard to find some downright cheap thing about this car , such as a flimsi sunroof cover and a consol box panel that pop out to reveal the gear below . 
 now come the hard part . 
 volunt may be hard to come by owe to the lure of actual combat and the uncertainti of the futur with a new-fangl devic . 
 that make me the last network radio comic in america , hard though that may be to believe. '' 
 though life is hard , he add , it has improv sinc the state loosen it grip and allow free enterpris like his own to spread . 
 even though it design is not particular revolutionari , a prospect purchas , until recent , had to search long and hard to find such a piec . 
 `` they have n't bottom out yet , `` she said , `` and it 's hard to say when they will. '' 
 `` it 's veri hard , in my opinion , to achiev fair balanc . 
 privat , giant offici have said they are skeptic about work with santa clara and say the citi 's staff and council were extrem hard to deal with last year . 
 the home stretch : this last month of the season hold so much promis that it 's hard to restrain yourself -- from yawn . 
 in the januari survey , peopl who said job are hard to find outnumb those who said they are n't by 3 to 1 . 
 while this tendenc make it hard for compani to keep secret , it great facilit the transmiss of idea that sometim lead to new product or compani . 
 it 's hard to rememb turner as all-purpos buffoon , but he was . 
 howi had favour a bolt but this would have been hard to stage , so he fell back on a stroke . 
 `` you can teach the short game , but it 's hard to teach length . 
 `` the citi of fremont is larger now , and it 's harder to get from here to there if someon need to get to a doctor . 
 alleg question ; one u.s. offici , who insist on anonym , said , `` if someon is serious about the jesuit case and had credibl evid about the case , it 's hard to understand whi they would wait until the second anniversari of the death and releas that evid to the media , rather than turn that evid over as quick as possibl to the judg in this case , who has proven his commit to prosecut whoever has been accused. '' 
 there was a moment of silenc , hard to break . 
 of cours , it 's hard to put an exact dollar valu on land if no one make a direct profit from it . 
 ( `` that 's the hardest thing to teach , `` she sighs. ) 
 `` it 's veri hard to imagin that thing like this can happen in the unit states. '' 
 it 's hard to lose your friend . 
 about 10 polit prison in northeastern china are plan a hunger strike unless the prison author stop beat them and forc them to work 14-hour day on a diet of hard bread and veget , a chines person who has been brief on their circumst say . 
 lap-top screen use lightweight technolog that eat up as littl power as possibl -- and therefor are dimmer , smaller and harder to read than desk-top display . 
 `` the presid say we re not in a recess , `` he said , `` but i ve had a hard time believ that when 80 percent of our client are tell us that busi is lousy. '' 
 sometim it 's hard to figur out what they want. '' 
 `` the import thing is to make the test for the oper 's licens harder . 
 `` and i find it hard to believ she could be anywher for three year without tri to make contact , `` say sharon , who carri a cellular telephon with her for near a year wherev she went . 
 `` it 's hard to sustain cattl without bring in food and it 's a veri expens oper . 
 `` it 's alway harder to get a big guy , `` said offens coordin mike holmgren . 
 `` the new yorker and peopl from new jersey find it hard to settl down and relax , `` she said . 
 it 's veri hard for travel agent to sell organ tour in america to american . 
 have use the full forc of his fieri oratori to reject ani fundament chang , it is hard to imagin how he can adjust at this late date to the new soviet order . 
 it 's hard to see from the bottom , but it 's all too easi to hear : the lab is home to a dozen dog . 
 everyth ride on a veri small portion of his anatomi , which is veri hard to control. '' 
 on the day after independ day , when the biggest traffic jam was trigger by `` termin 2 '' and the toughest toiler in town were regga rocker at the san jose america festiv , it was hard to be a work stiff while everybodi els play . 
 thus his form have becom bunch , with knobbl case and cleft hard to read anatom , and with lean stumpi extrem . 
 `` i have a hard time watch , so i decid , whi should he have all the fun ? `` 
 it 's not too hard to understand whi the men of the u.s. senat did n't grasp the import of anita hill 's reluct charg against clarenc thoma : histor in washington , d.c. , women are one of the perk that go with the power . 
 `` it 's hard to justifi the kind of money we make . 
 `` that 's what make it so hard to listen to , `` she say . 
 tourist plan to stop in on the world 's fair will find room hard to come by . 
 when the govern start whine about how hard it is to make end meet , it 's natur to sneer and grab hold of your wallet . 
 and one of the hardest is what to do about career plan when both wife and husband are on a fast track . 
 `` this has been the hardest 12 month of my busi career , `` wright said as he began the tape session . 
 if all we learn from the palm beach trial is that rape is a terribl thing and a hard crime to prove , we have also learn veri littl . 
 simpli delici ; it was so good it 's hard to believ it was so simpl . 
 but between the drought and the shell burst , he said , ranch has gotten harder than ever . 
 they are convinc non-human , exceed clever and even -- the hardest trick -- quit funni . 
 by the end saturday , it was hard to tell the differ . 
 `` it 's just hard for me to believe. '' 
 what 's so hard about make a pim ? 
 it seem a strang custom and it was hard to see for what purpos a man would troubl to make himself rich , if he could not buy more women with his rich . 
 onc that happen , it 's a lot harder to lie about it than it use to be . 
 undoubt belden was rememb when bread and meat were hard for him to come by , that period in 1841 when he cross the plain as a member of the bidwell-bartleson parti , the first overland emigr train to california . 
 in the 1990s , they re like to be hard to avoid . 
 i would say i was go to be late to the ballpark or not take bat practic , and if they did n't like it , it was , well i 'm out of here or i ll fight you on it. ' ; `` now if i am go to be late , i call , i say i have had a hard day around the hous and i want to save the rest of the energi i have for the game. '' 
 in wilson 's propos shift of discret over certain program to the counti and to local voter , it 's sometim hard to distinguish philosoph convict from fiscal necess , and even harder to predict how the counti ( or the voter ) will use that discret . 
 or valu conflict may make it hard for manag to do what they know is right for the busi . 
 for barney i think it 's even harder ; there 's a differ kind of stress . 
 i spoke to the head home economist at the usda hot line , susan conley , who said the hardest part of the job is advis peopl that , becaus of improp prepar , their turkey should be use for someth other than dinner , such as landfil . 
 not too tight , you will n't get away with do this just onc , you ll onli make it hard to undo again . 
 some airlin have found it hard to compli with some of the rule . 
 they are often hard to erect and clumsi to carri . 
 that 's veri hard to believ . 
 taxicab , especi in the downtown area , are hard to find . 
 but peopl subscrib to hbo probabl are n't do it becaus of the intermitt sport program , and that make it hard to argu for earli morn or even afternoon coverag . 
 the flour tortilla , plastic-bag and kept warm , had gotten a littl hard around the edg . 
 a lot of them irrit my eye and make it hard for me to breath . 
 `` it 's hard to think about life without volleybal , `` beckenhauer-hel said . 
 we were a rock band on one hand , but there 's someth that happen when you put four girl on stage in miniskirt , there 's sort of a vibe about it that 's hard to control . 
 but evid for such claim has been hard to come by , in part becaus of fear that public complaint from u.s. compani would prompt japanes equip maker to retali . 
 i have move to texa and it is harder and more expens for me to continu call the ftb . 
 depardieu 's would-b poet and noiret 's all-lov philosoph are particular hard to take . 
 the former 49er coach , honor at a dinner saturday night as an outstand alumnus of san jose state , alway was abl to make hard decis about tell a player his time in the nfl had run out . 
 the reason laptop comput have to be the size of notebook is becaus it 's hard to figur out how to put hand on a keyboard that 's ani smaller . 
 to be honest , it 's hard to feel like a no-nonsens , take-charg kind of parent when you re sit at a tini desk that look like it was made in santa 's workshop . 
 `` it was hard to see him like that , `` said center jess sapolu , who join a larg group of 49er and eagl in a reggi white-l prayer session on the field after the game end . 
 `` i understand preemi have a hard time under the best of conditions. '' 
 now come the hard part : creat a stabl and prosper societi on the ruin of the old totalitarian order . 
 `` it 's veri hard to improv tetri , but it 's veri easi to spoil the game , `` pokhilko say , note that idea for chang it are consid and discard everi day . 
 it 's hard not to like tina turner 's `` the bitch is back , `` and o'connor could make a live on tribut album alon . 
 usual not too hard to sell worker on this as it give them longer holiday period . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to say what will happen in term of addit servic becaus we ve got to get the servic up and run , `` said caltran spokesman jim drago . 
 percept and stereotyp are hard to dispel . 
 from what i hear , blush , virgin young thing are hard to find in hollywood . 
 ( box ) microwav method : smaller turkey ( less than 12 pound ) may be cook in the microwav , but it is hard to even cook larger bird . 
 last season 's loss was especi hard to swallow becaus irvington ( 1-1 ) was come off it first victori in three season when it surpris the charger , who finish 2-8 . 
 `` it 's harder to get the obes out to begin exercis than the woman who is not obes , `` bagwel said . 
 when you lose ground like that , it make it hard . 
 `` it 's one of those thing hard to explain . 
 when i was an undergradu at stanford in the earli 80s , one of the hardest class to get into in the english depart was a seminar call american live . 
 it make it hard to do some of the thing i 'd like to do here becaus of it , `` dunn said . 
 when he 's struggl , it 's hard to pitch him a lot. '' . 
 that make it hard for team to play you . 
 vow to veto ; the legisl is design to overturn five 1989 suprem court decis that made it harder for women and minor to win job-discrimin lawsuit . 
 `` i would n't want to discourag anyon from tri the sport , but after you play for the first few time , it 's hard to find oppon becaus your abil to play chang so dramat , `` he said . 
 although local reject rate are not immedi avail , agent work with south bay minor home buyer say that the studi prove someth they experi regular -- subtl and harder-to-prov form of discrimin . 
 armi women , like their counterpart in the marin , had a hard time find sanitari napkin . 
 `` it 's hard go in favored. '' 
 and it is hard to think of the poor slob who sit twice a day in bumper-to-bump traffic along 101 as the spot owl of silicon valley . 
 but this year in hard econom time , onli 42 percent of the school 's graduat have found job . 
 but if she has a hard time imagin how this could lead to the discombobul you describ , she nevertheless appreci the practic wisdom of your suggest and is happi to pass it on . 
 to his credit , van poppel seem eager to absorb some hard lesson and everyon say he has improv . 
 we did it the hard way , score everyth with two out , but that show the charact of the team. '' 
 for one thing , wagner conced that a teknekron start-up 's characterist eight- to 15-year gestat period is hard for a giant to abid . 
 the love affair between alic and erik , so immedi and miracul , is harder to accept than the premis that a young woman regular becom a wolf . 
 if an execut in a tradit male job , an attract woman tend to have a harder time win recognit and promot . 
 consid the willing of extortionist to use terror tactic , it 's not hard to understand whi so mani peopl are apprehens . 
 i also have arthriti in my left hip , which make it doubli hard for me to reach my custom at time . 
 is dull busi , detect , and hard on feet . 
 the combin of those thing are hard to find . 
 that 's pretti much what you have to tell these pitcher and it 's hard to do. '' 
 sinc gregori was a toddler grow up in leatherwood , va. , it has been hard to keep him off stage . 
 ( box ) more than 40 percent said it was hard to reach the cabl compani on the phone . 
 it was hard to ascertain who was the most ineffect for the cardin -- the offens , defens , kick game , coach ? 
 `` most beginn say the hardest thing about the sport is hold your breath , but it 's all mental -- you burn up a lot of air with the anxiety. '' 
 still , he has a hard time express whi he will left the academi and is jeopard a comfort lifestyl for a chanc to start a soviet telecommun firm . 
 it 's hard to imagin a bridg that would be more import in the day follow a quak . 
 `` now , israel may face someth it has n't face befor -- a unit arab approv of a peac confer they may find hard to resist , `` a senior administr offici said . 
 unless an agreement is work out soon , the citi may have to make some hard choic about how mani trip it can provid to critic ill patient , she said . 
 but be the first one in your neighborhood to visit this forlorn place , it 's hard not to write home about it . 
 do you feel it 's hard to keep in touch with old friend ? 
 `` this is veri hard for them . 
 `` i just find it hard to believ there are still 400 extra peopl hang around cbs in the fifth year of the stewardship of larri tisch. '' 
 it relentless cheeri tone make it a cloy read for one sit , but it 's hard to beat as a browser . 
 that 's hard to say after onli two week . 
 anyon look on would be hard put to see the downturn . 
 typic , the comput belong to a corpor or the govern and is consid in crack circl to be hard to penetr . 
 the issu of low wage for janitor is much harder to solv . 
 it effort includ a custom survey to find out what was realli hard to understand in the tax code , form , etc . 
 dr. robert huizenga said that the multipl tumor in alzado 's brain have shrunk and becom hard to see on x-ray after two `` cours '' of chemotherapi treatment at the ucla medic center . 
 it is hard to imagin 125 , 000 dead and million of homeless in the unit kingdom receiv such scant attent so soon after the fact , or the american public toler the shortag of news coverag we are experienc . 
 `` as resid manag , it 's hard for me to imagin a full-fledg research facil without an airfield attach to it , `` compton said . 
 `` these kind of incid would be hard for us to find with a random check of their record , `` framiglio said . 
 mani spot are hard to remov if they re allow to `` set . 
 `` the hard part is over . 
 `` that 's hard to do becaus i 'm still a kid as far as physic is concern . 
 my husband had a hard time hold back the tear when he read it , and so did i . 
 but the money save is hard to count -- who know if the babi might have requir more hospit , or the 3-year-old wo n't need special educ becaus of parent stimul and head start -- and it 's save in the futur . 
 if you punch down the dough rough , it will becom elast again and hard to shape into a loaf . 
 french and italian bread , when slice thin and toast tend to becom too hard and crumbl . 
 it 's hard to tell if the claim is true , becaus these are veri tini insect . 
 sure , it 's possibl for peopl to forget about the camera and go about their busi , but it 's hard to watch someth as intim as a phone call to a hoped-for birth parent by an adopt child and not feel like an intrud . 
 but it was hard for anyon close to the pow to approach normalci with this week 's whirlwind event . 
 gregori sawer , an analyst at the new york financi research firm sanford c. bernstein & co. , said mci 's chief competitor , american telephon & telegraph co. and u.s. sprint , would have a hard time match mci 's promot becaus their computer bill system are not as sophist . 
 a well , a budget agreement , peopl know instinct if not by hard lesson learn , repres a great deal of sound and furi and littl els . 
 still , it 's hard to recal ani parti to a santa clara counti labor disput that has been as contempt as the servic employe intern union in it current effort to establish a union at shine build mainten , a san jose janitori compani . 
 but it 's hard to find much good news out there. '' 
 also , the amigo 's design make it aw hard for an adult to reach the back seat . 
 it was someth harder to name , restless and self-involv . 
 he could make it easi for her , or make it compar hard . 
 nevertheless , okazaki sympath with griffith , say the state did n't alloc enough money for the project , and `` it 's hard to pleas everyone. '' 
 dr. solomon 's is just too hard to use . 
 with congress control by democrat , that will be hard for bush to do . 
 pork is one of the hardest food to digest . 
 `` it 's hard work for him at his age , `` his sponsor , le huu dan , translat . 
 that instant cut the valu of invest in build up to 20 percent , throw margin develop into bankruptci and ad hard-to-sel asset to bank balanc sheet . 
 besid , it 's hard not to have some fun wear a gorilla mask , say frida . 
 unfortun , the display is hard to read , the batteri do n't last long enough , the processor is about to be obsolet ( new machin introduc last month have faster processor or processor that extend batteri life ) , and the whole thing weigh a coupl of pound too much . 
 the legisl began as an effort to overturn a seri of suprem court decis make it harder for minor and women to win job-discrimin lawsuit . 
 hosin said he had a hard time convinc his parent the situat was serious enough to warrant leav . 
 `` i know this is go to be hard , `` he said . 
 sinc her juli blackout , she -- like thousand of california motorist in similar circumst -- learn the hard way about the depart of motor vehicl ' littl known system that requir doctor to report to state offici the patient they have treat for laps of conscious . 
 the european observatori statement said the chanc of an object hit the relat small halley nucleus seem `` extrem remot , `` and it is hard to see how such an event could lead to the relat steadi outflow of dust observ . 
 but common sens indic that tree that have had a hard time , especi the citrus tree , would be unabl to combat a whitefli invas . 
 ( check ) it would also nullifi other u.n. resolut after iraq 's full withdraw , make it harder to enforc technolog and militari embargo against iraq , allow it to rebuild it arm forc in the futur . 
 but it 's hard to keep win by play that game , expert say . 
 `` it 's hard know the success they re have , `` richmond said , `` and i 'm not have ani at all , to tell you the truth . 
 not write will be hard . 
 `` the tough thing is , it 's hard to find a big back with those qualiti , `` nunnelli said . 
 the union want the compani to recogn it outright , without an elect , a legal tactic union have embrac recent becaus they say new labor law make it harder for them to win tradit elect drive . 
 that 's the hardest thing to deal with more than anyth becaus i love him veri much , `` said gama . 
 `` i have a hard time understand how you can signal befor you get to the bottom of the pile. '' 
 i learn this the hard way . 
 `` it 's a hard way to grow up , have a name like that , `` he said . 
 from the februari day that the shark unveil their uniform jersey , retail have had a hard time keep merchandis bear the team 's color and logo on the shelf . 
 here in the south bay , one of the hardest dream to chang is the single-famili hous . 
 admir goal all , even if it 's hard to tell what the result will be . 
 and this past spring , santa clara valley water district offici adopt a 25 percent averag cutback -- requir a 30 percent reduct in the summer and 15 percent in the winter , when it 's harder to conserv . 
 craig was refer to the new astrodom configur that make it harder to hit homer to left and right . 
 they say they have a hard time tell the pass of a train from a small earthquak . 
 is it hard for her to deal with her husband 's past life and past wife so often ? 
 but it was hard to defend myself becaus i do n't speak english well. '' 
 but it is hard to see how investor outsid the brokerag industri could have learn about the promis deal befor last thursday 's announc , as it was not mention in report judic has file with the secur and exchang commiss . 
 ( box ) dave 's coffe shop , 4299 broadway , oakland , ( 510 ) 658-2455 , would be hard to miss in that dark neighborhood even without the huge sign that make veri sure you know this is dave 's and it 's a coffe shop . 
 becaus he take pain killer and other medic , some day are harder than other . 
 just how mani book and magazin are there is hard to say . 
 `` and on the harder dive , i still get nervous. '' 
 sinc expo 86 spread word of vancouv 's charm , canada 's third-largest metropoli fill in the summer with a cosmopolitan mix of tourist , make inexpens and safe room hard to come by . 
 `` it 's veri hard to get a budget that 's both doabl and realist , `` said robert byer , dean of research , whose offic is slate for a $ 550 , 000 cut . 
 it 's so aw that it 's hard to believ it 's made by the same man who creat `` all in the famili , `` `` maud , `` `` mari hartman , mari hartman '' and `` fernwood 2-night. '' 
 `` when all i 'm ask for is a no-trad claus , what 's so hard ? '' 
 `` it 's hard to talk without cri , `` ruth said earli today from her new home near grass valley , where she move last week . 
 it 's hard to defin . 
 reserv hard to get ; get a reserv in popular coast or redwood park is like win a telephon lotteri , camper say . 
 `` it 's hard to believ it was anyon els . 
 `` it 's a lot harder than i thought it would be , and more expens than i thought it would be. '' 
 insid top fun ; hot shot , ' star charli sheen and lloyd bridg , is a parodi of so mani movi it 's hard to keep track . 
 `` our peopl work , and it 's just hard for them to get the time off. '' 
 `` it 's hard to find a place where they have a weak , `` tomey said . 
 have been activ all my life , it 's harder to let go of a young ' bodi . 
 is hard to believ that this mass of intertwin concret constitut what the law call `` the highest and best use '' of central locat urban land . 
 `` i think it 's realli hard to predict what is go to happen , `` said ann golseth , vice presid of student servic at fremont 's ohlon colleg . 
 it 's hard to imagin that not long ago we name a missil `` minuteman. '' 
 `` it 's hard to imagin have someon on the suprem court whose attitud toward the status of half the nation 's popul have been call into question. '' 
 `` it was hard for the infantri to get a handl on this , `` said jerri bartlett , an fmc execut and a retir armi general . 
 `` and the hard part is yet to go . 
 she has a rare form of cancer call germ cell tumor that often respond well to chemotherapi but `` when it come back is veri hard to get rid of , `` he said . 
 otherwis it is hard to explain their refus to allow region differ in price , or their long hesit befor close down uneconom pit . 
 but it is hard to argu with intel 's success , in part due to it manufactur invest . 
 harder to see ; the ntsb said the light configur use by the skywest plane compli with feder regul , but would have made it harder to see than if it had been fulli illumin . 
 risk is hard to measur , and chang frequent . 
 that market was close to foreign competit into the 1970s , and old habit have proven hard to break . 
 a spokesman for the california medic associ ( cma ) acknowledg it can be hard to find doctor who will take aid patient , and not just in southern alameda counti . 
 histori report that a great mani peopl have found this out the hard way ; among them were the relentless phalanx of alexand , the ruthless horsemen of genghi khan and the bayonet-tip minion of the british empir . 
 `` it 's harder to have all this inform and differ viewpoint , `` she said . 
 while the word of the rap song are a littl hard for older ear to comprehend , fee said backstag it 's easi for the young to pick up . 
 `` it 's hard for me to understand whi they wait so long befor file such a serious claim , `` said deputi state attorney general dane r. gillett . 
 he was the onli skater to includ two tripl axel in his long program and did the hardest combin of the night , a tripl axel/tripl toe . 
 lack of manag open sometim make it hard for hispan employe to move up , camarillo acknowledg . 
 the reason for the ad delay , said maj. mark rader , a spokesman for the militari postal servic agenc , is `` it 's harder to hit a move target , `` he said . 
 they lug around fat binder of handout and extra backpack of book , slog through their hardest subject in the decathlon curriculum -- scienc and mathemat -- and pass up date . 
 cristalina cendeja , a student at sequoia high school in redwood citi , has a hard time put her thought into word -- when the word are spoken in english . 
 patienc while intern sanction continu is easi to counsel and hard to practic , but for now it is the best cours . 
 it is hard to believ they could fail to see that among the mani peopl on death row who are guilti of murder there are peopl innoc of the crime for which they are incarcer . 
 he 's ask hard question about his valu , though the question have noth to do with net worth . 
 it 's hard to believ no one notic , `` he said . 
 the mayor and citi council -- and their staff -- are often hard to see on short notic . 
 `` but it 's so protract it 's hard to see the result you want in ani reason time frame. '' 
 the paus in the advanc of general busi activ this year has thus far been quit modest , it is hard to escap the conclus that the soften process will continu into the first quarter of 1961and possibl somewhat longer . 
 on street where life can be as hard , gray and dirti as the sidewalk , peopl seem to want art . 
 mayb exquisit pain , but it was the hardest time i ve ever had. '' 
 she would observ : `` have the babi made thing even harder , though men had left to studi or for other reason for even longer than that . 
 they learn war the hard way , not as staff type who got their vietnam ticket punch far from the shoot . 
 `` he has just been so dedic to the children that it 's hard not to support him when he 's in there , `` hussey said . 
 we do n't like to admit it , but let go is lot harder than be let go of . 
 `` i have peopl 's hous i can go to , but it 's hard to go everi day , especi at 7 o'clock in the morning. '' 
 -- parent , usa ; dear parent -- it 's hard to `` talk sens into their head '' when i have no idea what the problem is and no one want to discuss it . 
 in their book `` feed the bird '' ( workman , $ 8.95 ) , helen and dick witti warn that it 's hard to evalu packag wild-bird seed that is wide avail at supermarket , pet store and garden center . 
 on march 27 , 1990 , it main polici committe face a hard question : was econom activ slow so much that the fed need to stimul it or was growth still strong enough to avoid recess ? 
 alum rock is anticip a hard effort to get it april measur pass . 
 if haley doe n't take those word to heart , it 's hard to blame him . 
 to travel the road of hope and opportun is hard and difficult , but there is a chanc that you might somehow , some way , with the help of god , make it . 
 i find that hard to believ . 
 `` the hardest part was not be abl to tell anybodi , `` said righetti , 32 and a first-tim parent . 
 market director brian gruber say there is a lot of anecdot evid to suggest that cnn has been a big reason for the rush to hook up , although it 's hard to separ the war from the compani 's 20th-anniversari free instal deal , which began jan. 1 and began be promot just befor the war . 
 whether the upgrad card stock will boost sale of topp ' basic brand is hard to say . 
 this is the kind of histor item we re talk about , and it would make the perfect gift for that distinguish gentleman or ladi on your list who like to come home after a hard day , put on a comfort pair of slipper , and walk around the hous make loud flatul nois with his or her feet . 
 the task was harder than it sound . 
 `` after play there for 14 year , it 's go to be hard to sit on the visitor ' bench . 
 on `` china beach '' : ; i have a hard time deal with ( vietnam ) . 
 statist to support that are hard to come by . 
 it has been a hard time , bubba said , but `` it 's what life has dealt me right now . 
 i tri beano on three occas and i did n't notic ani signific reduct in flatul , though admit it 's hard to measur such thing . 
 mani program are primarili educ , and those are not hard to implement , said langer , becaus there are organ like cancercar that will send profession to give seminar or help manag set up more extens program . 
 unless you have a hard-to-find map that list each blm properti in a given district -- and ani accompani public road -- you can not tell whether the land you are see is public or privat . 
 with the cold war over and with fear of anoth pearl harbor at rest , it 's hard to rememb a thanksgiv day when there were more reason for the unit state to give thank than in this second year of the last decad of the centuri . 
 but the sudden attent given cardoen is n't hard to figur out , kaplan said . 
 it 's hard to say which was more surpris : that the cincinnati bengal final won , or the way they did it . 
 it 's hard to go wrong with the bbq babi back rib ( $ 15.95 ) or the wonder bbq pork chop ( $ 13.95 ) . 
 dent or no , find the illicit garden is n't as hard as some peopl would think . 
 `` the hardest thing has been that i miss my friend , the sens of belong , the sens of ident . 
 if the five nomine were so lack in `` excel , `` presum it would n't be hard to name five more excel choic ( by some good old white , male writer ) . 
 `` it is hard to excus his blind fatalist view in 1988 that the dictatorship of the communist parti remain untouch and untouch ' or that 'a long competit and struggl with the soviet union lie befor us , ' `` bradley said . 
 the hard-to-find star ; that 's how harper often leav his audienc -- scream . 
 `` it 's go to be hard without juli , `` potok admit . 
 it is n't hard to decid what to take becaus i ve often consid this possibl . 
 a senior administr offici acknowledg the lack of action , say , `` we have n't put out anyth in health care , so it 's a littl hard to defend. '' 
 `` my whole life certain has been a fantasi , so it 's hard to come up with frivol idea . 
 `` it 's so hard to take in all the color against the blue sky , `` said barbara kercsmar of albuquerqu . 
 tribut to midsumm `` bang-sash '' seem terribl funni , though it would be hard to explain whi . 
 i see him tri veri hard not to be ( unfair ) , but then i see case like that i disagre with. '' 
 was down , hard to talk to , and far too nonchal on the field . 
 but he assert that given the harsh of the terrain , `` it is hard for the peopl to surviv now at those altitud . 
 we hope that their activ posit will at last civil our life , which is rather hard now . 
 `` there 's been a run on antiqu and it 's realli hard to find them , `` reiff continu . 
 but it 's so hard for him be a black quarterback and be in that citi . 
 it 's hard enough to imagin the cool , sophist eikenberri talk like tammi wynett , but it 's a real challeng to buy her as a duti wife who work in a beauti parlor and subscrib to the submiss philosophi of wynett 's old `` stand by your man '' countri song . 
 for if `` roc '' the tv show becom the hit mani critic are predict this fall , it will be hard to find more of a hollywood-styl rags-to-rich success stori than dutton . 
 that 's a lot of work for someon who has a reput for be hard to work with . 
 mani of the speaker believ the new chief 's hardest task will be to continu improv the depart 's relationship with minor . 
 environment issu are especi hard , particular when the problem we are concern about disappear into thin air . 
 the hardest part is find a babi sitter . 
 `` i 'm just put pressur on myself , and it 's hard not to . 
 whitfield and baker sure deserv much better , even though it 's hard to imagin diana ross or ani of the myriad other actress who have tri to make a movi about baker play her ani better . 
 of cours , when it come to cloth , pattern have gotten a bad rap for be out of style and hard to make . 
 `` we ve lost our road-gam ( win ) streak , and the hardest place we ve been have to win at is home , `` mcintyr said , fulli respect of the ram ' abil to strike back . 
 the softwar also let you save part of the screen as graphic file on disk and let you magnifi menus -- they can be hard to read when you re use a larg screen with high resolut . 
 if they did n't do it that way , offici said , they 'd have a harder time fend off lawsuit from group claim they had n't receiv enough job . 
 today , david leeper , an assist vice presid of bellcor , the telephon research firm , say , `` it 's definit harder , in a multi-vendor market that is chang rapid , to guarante an overal network that 's entir reliable. '' 
 harrison 's client , san diego neurologist dr. mark levin , learn the hard way about what can happen if doctor do not proper fill out the disclosur card . 
 we have heard this so often that it 's hard to know ani longer if it 's a lament or an excus for the neglect of the youngest and poorest american . 
 this is almost what shelley took to be his frame of mind ; and it is hard to accept , with the de doctrina befor us , without talk about milton 's unconsci . 
 narrow road that snake up canyon are hard for peopl to flee down and for fire truck to charg up , especi all at onc . 
 pardon the adject , but it 's hard to believ this stuff goe without water . 
 i have a hard time with that one . 
 `` it 's hard to keep sharp , but it help to have a good crew , `` said shapiro , who brought his 4-year-old son , ben , with him to accept his award . 
 montana said : `` it 's hard watch . 
 the `` whi '' is n't hard to figur . 
 this mean they load themselv with honey , and it 's harder for them to sting when they re gorg . 
 milk carton are also as hard to recycl as asept juic box -- dispos box such as the one-serv contain popular with kid -- becaus of the insepar layer of mix materi . 
 `` i have a hard time go to bed at night sit up to see what 's happen in the war . 
 say austrian : `` ultim , and it 's hard to put a time frame on this , we 'd like to be one of the true intern sport . 
 but there 's someth inbr in a lot of us that make us forev self-consci and it 's hard to dismiss those gut feel on a whim . 
 duvet or comfort cover , long a stapl in europ , use to be harder to find than hen 's teeth in the state . 
 it 's hard to carri enough water for a long hike , so if you are plan to reli on stream , you must be prepar to disinfect the water befor you drink it . 
 i find it hard to see the moonbeam of truth through the smog of hypocrisi . 
 sjs order chang ; two major chang at sjs will make it harder for esl student to avoid their write problem : a new mandat for more write in all general educ cours , plus a new requir that all student take the write test befor they take ani of their requir upper-divis general educ cours . 
 it 's easi to chang good and price , but hard to chang the natur of the beast , particular such a big one . 
 `` we had a hard time tri to snap out of it in the third game . 
 first interst bancorp , hard hit by bad real estat loan , has announc that it will elimin 3 , 500 job by the end of the year and reorgan it sprawl 13-state oper in an effort to cut $ 250 million a year in cost . 
 `` it was hard to judg out there , a big guess game , `` she said . 
 `` it 's hard becaus we get treat bad , like anim sometim , `` the 22-year-old jaral said in spanish . 
 they are danger to enter , hard to clean . 
 it 's hard to tell . 
 `` it 's hard to articul the level of interest , `` said jame harpster , coordin of anniversari activ for the nation park servic , which overse the arizona memori . 
 when you visit a soviet orphanag , it is hard to keep your composur . 
 again : it 's hard to overestim the number of peopl who have comment -- favor -- on the person of the messag . 
 it still is a veri hard thing to deal with. '' 
 and sinc muscl burn calori faster than fat , that make it harder to stay slim . 
 offici said it was particular hard to assess the damag done to the entrench elit republican guard divis in a 4 , 000-square-mil area of kuwait and iraq -- a high-prior target . 
 jack is the hard one to convinc , though . 
 while saddam 's futur is anyth but clear , the alli may soon be forc to look for other countri will to provid home for mani of his long-suff soldier -- and may find them hard to come by , some analyst say . 
 `` it 's just veri hard to say , `` chalmer said . 
 possibl this is becaus she has had a hard time classifi them . 
 in fact , one of the onli good thing that can be said about this group is that it is hard to imagin the industri environ get wors . 
 unfortun for consum , discern if there is anyth truli `` green '' insid those fertil bag is even harder than select the product with the right n-p-k ratio ever was . 
 the simplest thing are hard these day for the giant . 
 but now magic johnson has an even harder job ahead of him if he is go to fulfil his pledg to becom an advoc of safe sex : now he is go to have to talk about how he contract the hiv virus . 
 `` three-d is pretti hard when you think about the math '' involv , engin dana batali said . 
 it 's also get harder to join a group health plan . 
 how hard is it to line up financ for real estat these day ? 
 `` sometim it 's hard when dad has to divid his time with all of these kid . 
 the court rule made it harder for women and member of minor group to win job discrimin lawsuit . 
 sign of hope that they will are hard to find . 
 but in each of these case , base on eyewit account as well as the cop ' , it 's hard to imagin how the offic could have act much differ . 
 but it 's hard to move the sort of stuff she carri . 
 `` i ve appli to so mani place -- denni 's , mcdonald 's , a car wash -- it 's hard to find work , `` he said in spanish . 
 chaffe said radar is use on busi road plagu by speed and accid and where offic have a hard time clock and pursu speeder in their patrol car . 
 it is hard for some area to assimil newcom , he say , but not this one , becaus we have a long histori of do so . 
 `` it 's a veri hard film to get financ , but i think a veri import one , particular for the youth of today -- to re-establish that those were n't silli , bore silent film with everyon throw custard pie . 
 and mailer 's obsess ( see below ) are just as hard to bear now as they were 40 year ago . 
 `` in the begin , it was hard , `` he said . 
 you can stay out of bar and dark alley , and avoid start fight with balki driver , but it 's hard to avoid lover , friend and relat . 
 if duct are hard to get at , call a heat contractor . 
 it was my life , and it was hard to just walkaway and say , hey , it 's in the past . ' 
 she say there 's a crew that repaint the licens plate when they get hard to read . 
 but sometim plain old reveng sure is hard to beat . 
 it 's `` weird '' and `` strang '' and `` tough '' and `` hard to accept '' be out of content , la russa 's player were say wednesday . 
 baker 's strategi ; that gambit was typic of baker 's approach : the secretari of state appear to be stake his initi on his success in arrang a peac confer ; to serv that goal , he has had to postpon the harder work of resolv issu of substanc . 
 ( they ) are live up to their standard , as hard as it is for you to imagin . 
 peopl say the qualifi tournament is harder than ani tournament you play in on the lpga tour . 
 saturday ) , but it 's hard to know if this can be transfer to the compani she now run . 
 `` it 's harder to explain away the peopl all lie than it is to believ that someth in fact happen , `` he say here . 
 fresno was have a hard time find a place to play , throw off the schedul of team the tiger were schedul to meet , the tribun report at the time . 
 it 's hard to know what 's right sometimes. ) 
 it would be harder for us to have one regular child than to have the 16 we have. '' 
 not a lot of hero ' ; harlow , 47 , one of a hand of volcano seismologist in the world , discount his `` indiana jone '' reput and said the success forecast and evacu was the result of `` a lot of peopl take a lot of respons and make hard decis . 
 without a healthi park fund , coonerti said , not onli will the citi be unabl to provid enough new park lot , but small-busi owner will have a harder time convinc bank that they will draw enough custom to pay off potenti reconstruct loan . 
 it is veri hard to tell the two apart in fifteen minut so we do not take ani chances. '' 
 patti hoath , an administr of the tax-counsel program for the aarp in washington , d.c. , said a lot of senior need help with their tax form for reason rang from physic ailment to print type on the tax form that senior often find too hard to read . 
 it 's way too hard to innov your way to rate success . 
 she final get the messag , but in the hardest possibl way : her doctor ( william windom ) diagnos her with a fatal ill and give her six month to live . 
 `` when we re click on all cylind , we re hard to beat. '' 
 it 's hard to count when your head and your torso are go in two separ direct at 45 mile an hour , but after five or six serious , major , gut-twist turn , sudden it 's over , and you feel the gentl caress of the denouement -- a mere rippl of track where the sky and the ground final return to the place god put them . 
 that is becaus , while do comedi may be hard , interview comedian is certain not . 
 `` it 's fair to say that anyon call the 202 area code had a hard time get through , `` shield said . 
 in this age of word processor , it just is n't that hard to generat a reject letter and stuff it in an envelop . 
 let 's not make it hard for travel . 
 it 's hard to figur how ceausescu 's repress regim found accept in the west , particular when the cold war began to thaw . 
 paul galm said prepar for the academ decathlon was harder than ani other cours he took this fall -- includ physiolog . 
 `` it 's just hard to not know they ( miami ) are there , `` bowden said . 
 if you re shop around for washington red , here are the best produc in the state of cabernet sauvignon and merlot : ; ( check ) quilceda creek -- veri hard to find , but these cabernet are the cream of the crop . 
 how we did that is hard to visual . 
 not that anyon in the green industri would phrase it this way , but mani busi thrive when time get hard . 
 yet ranstrom acknowledg that becaus shubb did not specifi how frequent the account notic must be issu , nor what type of inform they must contain , the effect of his order is hard to gaug . 
 as for the rest of us , left in the lurch by this revolt turn of event , life and televis , which are so hard to get separ these day , will never be the same . 
 `` he 's real care and give , `` said jennin zinner , a fellow counselor at the south counti center , `` but also cynic , embitt by a hard life . 
 that 's hard to say . 
 `` you know the park depart has had a hard time with us , `` said counti planner dave lute . 
 `` until you ve actual sat through a trial and seen the impact of a person like mr. dalla on the juri , it 's just hard to describe. '' 
 emili would add : `` my male classmat were general veri nice -- i 'm marri to one of them -- but it was hard to get good mark or to be call on in class . 
 i ve also found , when i 'm have a hard time rememb someth , it help to chang my physic posit . 
 `` it will be veri hard for consum to mount ani big spend upturn with jobless still grow , `` said allen sinai , chief economist of the boston co . 
 while it may be year befor the truth is known about the coup , it is hard to deni the kgb was at it heart , and that it was at root unchang by the reform of the gorbachev era . 
 and no matter what green say , it 's hard to catch colorado or notr dame on a bad day . 
 was an honest man do a hard job , and the implic that he was anyth els was unbear . 
 i find it hard to believ that out of 126 contributor , you did not print ani comment from male who claim to be suffer the effect of sexual harass . 
 `` it 's hard to be elat when we think that what trigger this is the death of two youngster in six year , `` mayor jack sutorius said . 
 but to creat a realli definit cultur type is veri hard , i think . 
 he 's includ in the playbil a chapter from san jose state prof larri engelmann 's histori of the fall of south vietnam , `` tear befor the rain '' -- the chapter on how hard it is to be an amerasian in vietnam . 
 `` it 's realli hard to understand becaus it ca n't be crowd becaus they re go to sell out . 
 `` it was hard to deal with , `` decious said of the loss . 
 `` poor famili are have a hard time here. '' 
 `` it was a hard decis , but i feel i 'm readi for the next level , `` he said at an afternoon news confer . 
 it would be hard to think of anyth more plain `` anti-constitutional. '' 
 it 's hard to imagin a sophomor be a team leader , but she is . 
 even gaze out a window is hard becaus the window have n't been wash of bird drop in two year . 
 it work well for simpl compound , he said , but it would be hard to imagin ever build a molecular-s robot this way . 
 it 's hard to imagin `` human bowl '' at joe 's place , at least in ani organ form . 
 this techniqu make it hard to keep track of even the princip stori line , deal with pearl harbor , the philippin and malaya . 
 movi are suppos to thrive dure hard econom time . 
 this was real hard at the begin , but now we make the best of everi day . 
 even the smuggest of us would probabl have a hard time say to a marxist , `` i told you so , sooner or later your god would fail you. '' 
 `` if you re in by 3 p.m. , we ll have you out by 3 p.m. the next day , `` say newman , a pledg mani dri cleaner would have a hard time match . 
 this five-month senat veteran is send encourag signal , but he 's also say thing like , `` if we do n't make some veri hard and tough polit decis now , we may end up destroy the beauti of california -- and no one want that. '' 
 if so , he may have a hard time defin it as a gay recruit film . 
 it 's hard to function. '' 
 los gato historian bill wulf , who rememb the movi hous from his teen-ag day , said he has a hard time envis the classic theater as a triplex . 
 in this case , it seem , both congress and the white hous came to the realize that lawmak were about to go home for two month without address the one issu foremost in voter ' mind -- the sag economi -- and that it would get increas hard for them to keep blame each other for the laps . 
 the tape make it harder for the truth to fade into a blur collect of oppos viewpoint , emot argument and attempt to hide the fact . 
 `` it 's been a hard year for her , on and off the court , `` he said . 
 `` it 's hard to play against them in practic and they do n't even tackl us ; what they do is someth call button-up ( halt the runner ) and it get so physic out there and they get so pump up , they just forget that we re on the same team . 
 `` it 's hard to say whi , but i felt bad mental , `` said volobuyev ( vo-lo-boo-yev ) , 44 . 
 small and flesh-color , and hard to stab with a fork , it doe n't garner a whole lot of respect . 
 ceramic-til counter top in kitchen or bathroom are eleg and , general speak , not too hard to instal over an exist counter top with a plastic lamin surfac such as formica , after the sink and faucet have been remov . 
 `` yeah , it 's hard , but you reach a certain point when you re a headlin , what els are you go to do ? `` she ask . 
 `` it would be hard to see how ani minor could be elect out of ani of these district , `` said swanson , an aid to u.s. rep. ron dellum . 
 despit the bargain-pric menu , we still spent $ 65 at dinner , includ tip , becaus i find it hard not to order wine , and i dislik spend $ 4 for a singl glass . 
 for generos abov and beyond , it 's hard to top bill and penni fitler of watsonvill , who won a night 's stay at the radisson south san jose hotel in a parent help parent contest -- and prompt gave it to san diego coupl with a daughter suffer from cerebr palsi . 
 it doe not block the way to anyth , and it is hard to see what militari valu it has as a target . 
 it is hard to find anyon at home these day and some peopl do not want to open the door for anyon . 
 the loss of hotel busi to the outskirt 's motel has been relat painless ; the hotel-motel demarc is becom harder to find everi year . 
 but most import , even the veri near-term futur in the soviet union is hard to read . 
 influenc mine , howev , rest on the bottom , where they are harder to find and can be set off by the nois , water pressur or the magnet `` signatur '' of a ship approach or pass overhead . 
 it was veri hard for him the last few days. '' 
 but in the face of all the problem in the world , is n't it just a bit hard to take boredom serious ? 
 `` it 's hard to make adjust and coach at the same time , and that 's what we did last year becaus we were so young , `` shaw said . 
 `` sometim it 's hard get all those figur down on the right lines. '' 
 one person hard to convinc is donald fehr , execut director of the major leagu player associ . 
 `` it 's hard to describ . 
 `` i 'm shi , `` bennett assert , a statement that 's hard to take serious as he sit beneath a larger-than-lif silhouett portrait of himself dure his counter-cultur day in new york citi . 
 `` that was kind of hard to take. '' 
 poinsettia and the yuletid season are so interlock that it 's hard to imagin one without the other . 
 select fund , of cours , is the hard part . 
 one food market consult was quot as say : `` it 's veri hard to describ a product fair and accur and still make it saleable. '' 
 `` it was hard to get stuff , `` he said , note that he 's still tinker with grass , `` good '' bug and an occasion shot of herbicid to help his crop . 
 but i suspect the giant ' front offic is have a hard time draw comfort from that tenet . 
 there are no figur on the preval of the problem , but research say the actual effect of the drug may be hard to detect becaus so mani of the men use steroid are still young and have not tri to have children . 
 thun , an epidemiologist at the american cancer societi headquart in atlanta , warn that even if the colon-canc find are born out , aspirin should never be `` a substitut for the harder thing that benefit health , such as not smoke , eat a vari , healthi diet , control your weight , get exercise. '' 
 it 's hard to understand folk when they have their tongu in their cheek . 
 although the stori is base on a brief histor account , the occasion lightheart tone of the text and the live watercolor illustr are both jar and hard to believ , given the document suffer at the camp . 
 at the same time , he said , `` i am have a hard time find stock i am realli interest in buy becaus the valuat i would appli if i were be tough with myself are n't there. '' 
 iron , their pay-tv rival , the disney channel , is march in the other direct , tri hard to lure more adult viewer for those time when the kiddi are either asleep or in school . 
 `` for the last six month , it 's been veri hard to find anyth on vinyl. '' 
 when phylli frelich talk , it 's hard not to stare . 
 a it 's hard to say . 
 it is hard to use and is quit slow . 
 it also chronicl beiderbeck 's hard and unhappi time . 
 they punish ordinari iraqi , not saddam , but they also make it harder , econom and polit , for saddam to strengthen his hold on power . 
 `` it 's hard to believ this was accident , `` said superintend rick marcoux , who began build the 145-unit complex in octob 1989 . 
 he said he was will to agre to `` anyth that get the bill out of committe , `` and agre to the onetim chang `` becaus the status quo has been so hard to break. '' 
 `` in term of econom fundament , it 's hard to think of ani that are particular bad . 
 it 's hard to think of a type of place to stay that bermuda doe n't have in depth . 
 without ancillari market , mgm has a harder time make a profit . 
 `` and it 's total hard to think that this person who you think you should be , who you want to be , is a lie. '' 
 it is hard to believ , but turner 's brave are as hot as his cabl news network was dure oper desert storm , as hot as his romanc with jane fonda . 
 `` i had a hard time breath . 
 after all , it 's hard to get giddi over ani one game when you re 35-46 and in fifth place , which will be the giant ' lot when the second half of the season begin thursday in philadelphia . 
 `` i think i ll fare well , but it 's hard to predict , `` canley said . 
 industri eye : `` it was a hard shoot for everybodi , `` say actress patricia arquett of lifetim 's `` wildflow '' tv movi set to air dec. 3 . 
 `` it will be veri hard for the cartel that 's control the scroll to put the geni back in the bottle. '' 
 `` that 's what 's so hard. '' 
 without the avail of capit at competit rate , it will be veri hard to test progress on ani other issues. '' 
 a rant against the system may be what peopl want to hear , but ultim a presidenti candid in these time need to tell voter what mani , appar , do n't want to hear : after you kick the bum out , you ll be left with hard choic on educ , defens , health care and tax . 
 wave of consolid ; with harder time ahead , industri observ expect a wave of consolid among the 12 , 000 bank and 2 , 000 thrift serv 260 million american . 
 but is too hard to tri to chang . 
 unlik deayardan , who ride a self-design , skateboard-s platform , the aussi were tri to master much bigger , harder-to-control board . 
 last word : i have a hard time tri to pinpoint my disappoint with this car . 
 if one has never studi the russian economi at close rang , it is veri hard to imagin the gap , or rather the canyon , that separ it from the u.s. economi . 
 `` i do n't know how i can ever expect them to understand what 's happen when i 'm have a hard time , `` she said . 
 5 : astro move fenc back ; as if it were not hard enough to hit a home run in the astrodom , the folk in houston decid to make it near imposs this season . 
 `` one of the most difficult thing in adapt is not the thing that are easi to give up but the choic that are hard , `` benton said . 
 i person had a hard time with hill come forward 10 year later . 
 `` it 's a hard choic right now , `` kidd said . 
 `` sometim it 's good to be away from it , but if you want to be around it 's hard to get away. '' 
 `` peopl say it 's hard to defin insid trade , but i think everi execut at everi compani know when they re in a gray area , `` he said . 
 talk to my son in saudi arabia , it 's hard to convey that . 
 `` corpor have fiduciari duti to equiti holder that are n't owe to debt holder , `` make it harder to bring case . 
 `` now it 's realli hard to figur out how to read the militari red tape. '' 
 if that happen , he say , troubl compani will find it harder to get the credit they need to reorgan . 
 `` the first year ( of elig ) was hard , but now it 's get better . 
 i know it 's hard to believ . 
 the late fred astair onc said , `` the hardest job kid face today is learn good manner without see any. '' 
 `` it was much harder than i thought . 
 it 's hard to turn down a long-term treasuri bond when the yield get to 8.4 percent , `` he said . 
 mindlink is both harder to learn than i expect and much more practic . 
 `` it 's real hard to get player to come to these game and i 'm grate to those who came , `` bird said . 
 the look : what work for me on the new bonnevill is a littl harder to take on the smaller grand am . 
 in fact , it 's a hard need to demonstr in mani case if environment valu are given the slightest consider . 
 it 's hard enough to meet peopl my own age in l.a. to meet a girl that i might have chemistri with is even harder. '' 
 it was hard to express all she felt . 
 it 's hard for report to determin how taylor is , becaus he doe n't speak to the press . 
 `` it 's probabl the hardest job in basebal , but we ve got a lot of veri capabl people. '' 
 chairman biden : judg thoma , these past few day have been veri , veri hard for all of us -- especi my good friend and colleagu sen. kennedi , becaus it is not easi for a man to sit through three full day of hear with a paper bag over his head -- but befor we let you go , there is just one more point i want to make , and it is a veri , veri import point , and i fulli intend to make it if i ever get to the end of this sentenc , which as you know and i know , judg , is high unlik to occur dure the current fiscal year , so . 
 `` there is an appar trend that it is somewhat harder for a mid-level player to get the free-ag pay dirt , mayb becaus of the mega-dollar go into the contract for superstar , `` shapiro said . 
 he rememb his parent talk of main , where they came from , a vagu and distant place gird with rock and bound by hard winter . 
 hsieh insist the issu is one of fair -- for him and for minor voter he say would have a harder time connect the sound of his name to it print form . 
 but the import differ are in harder-to-explain featur . 
 to wit : you will never have to learn anyth the hard way . 
 as ensembl go , turtl island is hard to beat . 
 and the program , one of four in the south bay , is have a hard time meet all their need . 
 my father is certain noth like tommi scanlan , and it 's hard for me to know how much my mother was like conni scanlan . 
 `` perhap , mr dark , '' chand said brusqu , `` you are find it hard to believ in me ? 
 the woman 's behavior `` would be kind of hard to fake . 
 this has been terribl hard on me . 
 when he 's on , it 's veri hard to make solid contact. '' 
 we are make everi effort to get by , but it 's so hard . 
 with the except of the khafji pow who fought well -- even if not to the death -- the iraqi captur so far have come from isol base that would be hard to resuppli in the best of time , one british offic said . 
 at the same time , our state budget process is in a fiscal straitjacket , bound up tight by a seri of structur constraint that prevent our leader from set budget prioriti and make the hard choic the time requir . 
 `` it was a chip i thought i could make , but to make it is hard to believe. '' 
 lover of the tv game will be especi disappoint ; it 's hard to visual a contest dress like a turnip over the phone . 
 craig said he would have let hickerson work longer than five inning , but he alreadi had thrown 84 pitch , and hickerson said he had a hard time recov from his last start . 
 `` it 's go to be a long , hard winter for a lot of peopl , `` said mayor abbi covington . 
 onc a slide downhil get go , it 's hard to stop , becaus no one believ that what was onc possibl is possibl ani more . 
 `` it 's easi to do this book now , but it was hard two year ago , `` she say . 
 some competitor suggest the cost-cut will pinch cb 's data servic and other help for it broker , and they say cb will have a hard time boost revenu becaus it alreadi take half a broker 's commiss -- one of the biggest bite in the industri . 
 it 's hard to imagin what the reaction might have been had notr dame lost . 
 `` it 's so hard not to be polit ! `` she said . 
 `` get fund is hard , `` said prez , a full-tim student who support herself from her feder supplement secur incom . 
 blow up tank is easi ; stabil is hard . 
 `` it 's someth to hear it on tv , but it 's hard to cope with when you come into school and see that empti seat , `` said rosemari bulaich , one of the 15 counselor who were at the san jose school wednesday help student cope with the bizarr tragedi . 
 the agenc 's program of bulk sale is intend to unload hard-to-sel properti . 
 in theori , at least , the servic sector and high-tech industri are the place where the u.s. economi is generat new job , but you 'd have a hard time prove it by the recent experi of my famili . 
 a lot of peopl think the secret is out on spring train , and that it 's start to get so hard to buy game ticket that it 's almost not worth go anymor . 
 i ask golda if what she doe is hard . 
 spot the recess 's end is not that hard . 
 but it is harder to mimic the speech of the nativ . 
 would be hard to find anyth more equivoc than : `` i can not recommend him too high '' . 
 it 's go to be harder for him ( now have to learn carmen ' on the doubl ) , but he ll be prepared. '' 
 the cover : to make call from home harder to trace , cracker might use stolen telephon credit-card number to place a seri of call through differ long-dist carrier or corpor switchboard befor call the target comput 's modem . 
 not be name coach of the u.s. olymp basketbal team still hurt , although it 's hard to understand what more nelson could have done to beat out detroit 's chuck dali , except win two nba championship . 
 `` but the competit is much harder than it was when merckx or other could win near ani race . 
 but it is more expens and harder to learn than photoshop and doe n't have it huge hold on user and relat product . 
 inde , it would have been hard to discern a domin element in the delic sauc of pine nut , meat juic and garlic that accompani my rare grill quail ( $ 14.95 ) , while my companion 's entre , a sort of bake fish , was a triumphant marriag of flavor . 
 the march 25 letter from charl moor on rival rail system draw so mani illog conclus it is hard to know where to start in refut . 
 `` the hardest thing is the languag problem , `` shark general manag jack ferreira said . 
 atmospher did n't enter into our decis either , but it 's hard to overlook the set at central texan . 
 most peopl would have a hard time live up to such lofti bill . 
 `` a more unfeel remark would be hard to find . 
 it 's funni , peopl say it 's not that hard to record a tv program off my vcr . 
 see what he saw after the first pitch , it was not so hard . 
 each anim will wear a har that record it heart rate and oxygen consumpt , an indic of how hard it is exercis . 
 decent job are hard to find . 
 ( box ) is brook shield a hard act to follow ? 
 the plan also would make it harder for potenti gun buyer to obtain a firearm acquisit certif , and requir weapon to be lock up when not in use . 
 even befor his first offici day of work , east palo alto 's new polic chief got a hard lesson in the financi and manag problem he is inherit : a notic that the depart 's crime-fight comput would be repossess . 
 it 's hard to think now that we have to give up what make us more safe. '' 
 it 's hard enough to make a film without write letter to the editor in the 15th and 16th hour of the day . 
 i 'd much rather see a glorious parad celebr what smart kid we re turn out ; except that 's hard to do when the educ depart tell us , as it did two week ago , that none of our state is do an adequ job teach math in the school and most are do miser . 
 litton also play outfield , so that will make it increas hard to keep someon such as leonard . 
 mayb it 's harder to develop new fuel than penn think it is . 
 but it is a hard time for constitut right . 
 `` it 's hard to know what a despond person is go to do . 
 if the standard has been inculc among the rank and file , if everyon understand their role , then joe mcnamara should n't be so hard to replac . 
 `` it 's hard work , but i guess we ve prove it can be done , `` said wright one recent afternoon in his offic a half block off loyalton 's main drag . 
 in addit to this histor appeal , there is also consider archaeolog interest , for the island is dot with the work of prehistor man , even though much of this record in stone is hard to read . 
 `` the hardest part about it all was i interview dozen of contractor . 
 as a measur of the extent to which the unit nation would go to prevent saddam from creat hard-to-detect biolog weapon , the plan set standard for bacteriolog laboratori in iraq . 
 british televis is as obsess with the war as america 's , and with onli four channel to choos from , war coverag is hard to avoid . 
 `` peopl are have a harder time qualifi ( for a loan ) these day , `` said herbert b. tasker of all pacif mortgag co. of concord . 
 how it is that celtic mysteri and individu beauti can coalesc in a flaki , metal shield on prong is hard to say in simpl term . 
 `` charl made a hard call , `` say craig gilliland , sunse ' attorney . 
 grow number of poor and non-english-speak student just make the job harder , he point out . 
 `` it 's a job that 's hard to explain . 
 you will also be respons for make back payment to your right lender and may get hard-to-remov black mark on your credit record . 
 that 's hard to quantify. '' 
 the class member , who are of normal intellig and pretti good at math , are in the special educ class becaus they have a hard time with languag and write . 
 text hard to get ' ; look for advic on grow without synthet chemic , masumoto found himself look in agricultur text written befor world war ii . 
 the hot seat : all brendan shanahan want to do is play hockey , but sometim it 's hard be the guy who cost the st. loui blue scott steven . 
 the council is schedul to vote on whether to join santa cruz counti and the citi of watsonvill and scott valley in make cigarett and tobacco harder for minor to obtain by ban the sale of those product from vend machin . 
 those would be hard thing to walk away from. '' 
 `` the one that reli on the rich babi boomer are the one i see have a hard time. '' 
 mariel hemingway ; ( box ) papa was a hard act to follow ; her appear at age 17 in woodi allen 's manhattan made her a star , but none of her subsequ film was a hit , so hemingway took a leav from the screen to be a mother . 
 `` it 's realli veri hard to put into word , to get your hope up and then have them dash time after time . 
 `` it 's hard to tell whether this is an isol incid or someth more. '' 
 and it 's pretti hard to go knock on peopl 's door and interrupt their privaci to find out what 's wrong. '' 
 money is especi tight for the countri 's rural elder , who also find that health care is more expens and harder to get than in the citi , agricultur depart research report today . 
 even though halloween is a time for the weird and supernatur , it 's hard to believ the scari recess remedi that has sudden gain popular in congress . 
 they thrive on the stress deadlin creat and have a hard time concentr on their task without it . 
 in a cynic age of 30-second hit spot , it 's hard to rememb that local polit was onc brim with ideal . e 
 `` it 's hard to say when it 's go to come about , `` said nathan snyder , technic director of the ralph m. parson co. , a giant southern california engin firm of the notion to ship alaska 's water to california , `` but it will have to come about. '' 
 as more potenti buyer learn of the hazard , your home will be even harder to sell . 
 i 'm plenti bitter and i 'm go to have a hard time trust anoth woman . 
 `` it 's hard to describ exact what it is . 
 the place is not hard to find . 
 `` that 's veri hard to take that . 
 qualif hard to check ; consum group , such as california advoc for nurs home reform , have never regist a complaint against nurs train oversea . 
 it 's so hard to believe. '' 
 librarian have alway had to decid these question , but as budget declin , the choic becom harder . 
 that 's pretti hard to believ , given his posit as deputi director at the time . 
 plummer a cal walk-on ; lineback gari plummer made the pros the hard way . 
 watch serrano at anoth , repopul town , it 's hard to imagin her settl for a life as a peasant , slap tortilla and scrub cloth . 
 `` as long as the bird migrat to third world countri that are still use these harm pesticid , it 's hard to say how far our effort will go , `` erwin said . 
 these vice are hard to give up , you know , `` danilov said . 
 romero 's will be a veri hard act for anyon to follow . 
 fund-rais is difficult , and it 's get harder . 
 but it is hard to get an accur figur . 
 it 's hard to put a finger on what went wrong friday and whether it was just an off night or someth essenti wrong with what manhattan transfer is tri to do on the road this time out . 
 in 1940 , lamarr -- whose first husband was an austrian weapon mogul -- came up with an idea for make the radio guidanc system of torpedo harder to jam . 
 she found this out the hard way . 
 `` it 's hard to explain anti-semit and thousand of year of histori , but the simplest respons i ve found is to tell her that oftentim what peopl do n't understand , they fear . 
 `` i had heard so mani horror stori from friend in the industri about how hard they are to deal with and how you should n't go and talk to them becaus they will just tri to steal all your secret . 
 `` for ( the hammer ) to get where it got , it 's hard to see how it got there , `` hunt said . 
 older technolog were cruder and harder to use , especi on the dos side . 
 so mani low cloud are come in that it 's hard for the sun to burn them off in time for the air to warm up much , nelsen explain . 
 it 's hard to let go of someth you love , someth you know is good . 
 florida court decis suggest that an obstruct charg would be hard to prove against someon who did not return polic phone call , even if it were proven that the person knew polic want to speak with him . 
 `` it 's hard to believ , `` brokaw said . 
 `` survey after survey show that emerg child care is the hardest to find , `` said barbara reisman , execut director of the child care action campaign , a nation advocaci group . 
 it 's hard to evaluate. '' 
 the speedomet , locat dead-cent in the dash , can be hard to see . 
 the first time you add redwood soil condition it will be a chore , as the soil is hard to spade . 
 is no harder to rais big , healthi , bloom plant than weak , sick littl thing ; in fact it is easier . 
 i do not wish to be a saint ( saint are so hard to live with ) but a sour old person is the work of the devil . 
 it was veri hard be back here , `` she say . 
 feel good do this ' ; granado say move into the shelter has been hard for joel , who has becom worri and remot . 
 ( we find it hard to believ santa clara counti transit , which say 144 , 000 peopl , or 10 percent of the counti 's popul , ride the bus weekdays. ) 
 the nation taxpay union said it was `` hard to imagin a more inappropri use of taxpay funds. '' 
 get into one of those jazz site is n't that hard . 
 `` it was hard to get up for game , `` he said . 
 our school district is no longer carri blue cross insur , so it is hard for me to correspond with them . 
 usa 's `` lightn field '' is a harder road , particular for viewer who ve seen all the ancient-curs movi they need for a lifetim . 
 in mountain view , where 80 percent of the resid do n't have kid in school , money is hard to come by . 
 `` a championship is hard to predict , but i think they would be disappoint if they did n't finish somewher in the top four . 
 it 's not hard to imagin the magnitud of miseri in poorer california counti and other state . 
 the hardest part for most parent is stick to the attack plan . 
 `` we had a hard time get out of romania at that time , `` she said . 
 it will be harder becaus thoma ' defend struggl all day , with limit success , to suggest what kind of twist motiv hill might have had for tell monstrous lie about him . 
 said warrior assist coach patti mcdaniel , `` if we had lost that game , it would have been hard to recov from for the rest of the match. '' 
 it 's so hard to say we ca n't stand you . 
 she is not quit as glamor as the `` snazzi '' michael o'neil pictur that ran in april 's vaniti fair , but then , it 's hard to write , report , rais three children and talk to your husband if your espresso brown hair is alway swing around your head like food order on a short-ord cook 's wheel . 
 from miss delaney we get the authent accent of the young ; and from mr bart we get a larg number of veri good tune , which some more tradit quarter have found hard to come by late . 
 it 's hard to be bore when your subject is william s. burrough , jack kerouac and neal cassadi . 
 but it 's hard to believ there 's a large-enough late-night audienc not alreadi hook on arsenio or johnni to give him too much time to practic . 
 way befor you go to court , i do n't think it 's that hard to figur out when a situat involv sexual harass is becom unbear . 
 it was a hard decis , but i think it 's better to leav the coach to the young turks. '' 
 `` be such an odd person , did she have a hard time when she was a child ? `` was anoth queri . 
 `` we have a higher rate of fussi babi , `` say pamela clark , coordin of the counti 's perinat substanc abus program , `` but whether that 's drug or their environ is hard to say. '' 
 `` it will be hard to dispos of the s & l mess itself , or the bank crisi that has follow it , `` garment write , `` as long as we refus to address the nonperson structur factor , such as the distort deposit insur system , that underlay the crisi in the first place. '' 
 `` i thought calgari would be one of the harder team to beat . 
 `` his patient are have a veri hard time tonight , `` said lewiston 's wife . 
 it 's hard enough to write a cop show , but here you re go to deal with other lifestyl and moral valu . 
 i 'd rather leav the church than give you up. ' `` ; she learn the whole truth the hard way -- from one of the other women who had been involv with the preacher . 
 if you start plan now for a 1992 basebal draft , how hard would it be to pinpoint 10 to 15 elit name ? 
 the hard road lie ahead , but she 's off to a good start . 
 `` it 's hard to make those wine for that kind of money , so we re realli not look to increas our number as much as just make better wine from the key variet that are best produc in this area. '' 
 when you have n't been win , it 's hard to win a game , `` a 's manag toni la russa said. `` . 
 we have some hard decis to make in the next 10 days. '' 
 it was gratifi to note that they had set so solid as to be hard to remov when the time came . 
 after two month of shuttl across the mideast on four differ trip , he has learn the hard way that the persian gulf war has not yet given birth to a new era in arab-isra relat . 
 the hansen bill aim at end abus in the small-busi market that have becom so pervas that it is now hard for insur compani to compet without engag in them . 
 it 's hard to leav school and my friend . 
 it 's veri hard to approach somebodi on this level with advic , `` but these inform session are when it 's easiest to say , `` i ve been watch you and i ve seen someth , it may be noth , but here it is anyway. '' 
 `` sometim you get off to a start like ian did , and it 's hard to keep it go , `` said o'meara , who live near baker-finch in orlando , fla. , and is one of his close friend . 
 suspens of disbelief may be a littl harder this year . 
 the search is too hard , the chanc of win invit comparison to the lotteri . 
 still , it may be hard for viewer to see light as quit the same love mom on `` who 's the boss ? `` after watch her feed arsenic to her onli daughter on `` wife , mother , murderer. '' 
 q : but is n't it hard for someon like you , who doe n't read a singl note of music , to write a choral work ? 
 the problem was n't hard to figur out . 
 for a preacher who deliv some scorch sermonett against the use of drug , jess jackson is find it hard to shake his own addict . 
 it would make it harder to discrimin in hire , employ and promot . 
 `` i have a hard time with that , `` he said somber . 
 and they are craft not in accord with what scienc has found to be safe , but what lawyer have proven hardest to litig against . 
 assist u.s. attorney leland altschul said that while white might have had a hard time as a youngster , he at least had a childhood . 
 it 's hard for rock 'n ' roll to be realli polit correct . 
 burum agre that mani of the schedul label on the collect box in los gato are hard to read . 
 at this critic moment , it will not be surpris to you that i have been ask myself hard question about the institut 's leadership . 
 harri believ his daughter 's death has been harder on his wife . 
 the exam has preoccupi well execut for week and hurt the san francisco bank 's stock price becaus the outcom was hard for anyon to predict . 
 but in recent year gourmet editor have simplifi their menus and overcom their fascin for hard-to-get ingredi . 
 and vice presid is a hard posit in which to both 1 ) make your mark and 2 ) remain loyal to the presid . 
 control mistleto is hard , becaus it attach itself to the tree 's vascular system , the part which carri water and nutrient to all part of the tree . 
 `` befor it get easier it 's go to be harder , `` kim say . 
 everi year a number of toy becom hard-to-find best seller . 
 `` i tri to think back , and it was n't hard , to the brutal and the terribl grief that the famili that stay in kuwait had . 
 `` becaus of the natur of the accid it 's hard to say if there were ani violat of state safeti code that could be contribut factor . 
 ( rememb how hard it was to find scud missil in iraq ? ) 
 no wonder it 's so hard to make a putt . 
 it 's hard to put a price on such rariti . 
 he 's way off base ; jim palmer 's comeback bid was hard to take serious . 
 `` it 's hard enough to set these ( five ) as prioriti , instead of chicago , san francisco , dalla , new orlean and all the other , `` morri said . 
 it 's hard for me to consid perfume-fre air a matter of anyon 's civil right with auto exhaust come in everi door. '' 
 `` it 's hard to believ , `` roger craig said afterward . 
 it 's odd how mani kitchen instrument have been replac by a motor version no more effect , much bulkier , and harder to wash . 
 it 's hard to describ the complet and utter inept of the oregon squad , but we ll give it the old colleg tri : ; the duck fumbl six time . 
 in the arena of polit , where the thomas-anita f. hill drama play out , it is hard to say whose name end up dirti and who end up smell like a -- well , not smell too much . 
 it 's just veri hard to say it briefli . 
 one thing most of the girl share is a new realize that take care of a babi is harder than they expect . 
 but for travel with result , it 's hard to top silicon valley 's deleg to the intern gay and lesbian human right commiss meet in leningrad and moscow earlier this month . 
 there was no subject , he said , about which it was harder to write truth . 
 but should walsh and his staff fail to do so , it is hard to see how ani similar immun defend could ever be success prosecut . 
 `` it was hard to ( imagin ) that this would happen. '' 
 for exampl , simmon had a hard time of it at sever prep school he attend ; he tell us as much . 
 playwright toni kushner learn it the hard way , when corneill 's name got second bill to his own in the hartford ( conn. ) 
 the crux of the problem is that the economi is at a turn point -- soemewher between recess and recoveri -- and it 's hard to get a clear read on where thing stand . 
 the new short are typic cut veri full , like a skirt ( often it 's hard to tell the differ ) . 
 it 's harder to sleep . 
 but put everyth under one agenc may be veri hard to pull off polit , eastin acknowledg . 
 `` boy would like it as much as girl , i think , becaus it 's pretti hard to tri to figur out how to kill the bad guys. '' 
 `` life is hard , but i do n't forget you , `` they sang in high voic . 
 `` it 's hard to balanc this off . 
 most peopl incarcer at riker island , even for bounc a check , would prefer the innermost circl of hade , so what it must be like for a known child molest is hard for us to comprehend . 
 they re hard to find . 
 recognit , hard to come by befor , will be more scarc than ever . 
 kouski note one similar between this year and 1982 : the presenc of a cloud of volcan debri in the air , make it hard to use satellit measur to determin water temperatur . 
 here 's tonga 's best beach ; pangai , ha'apai , tonga ; i promis i would n't do this , but journalist juic are hard to control . 
 it 's just that it 's hard to do thing that are bizarr or odd if i 'm under everybodi els 's direct . 
 bathroom and powder room are a littl harder to tuck away , becaus the pipe have to be hidden and becaus build code govern the placement of fixtur . 
 it 's just that it 's hard to have all of them over there . 
 ( age ) will be harder for madonna. '' -- grammy-win singer-songwrit bonni raitt 
 still , gaze around the desert shop mall , it was n't hard to see what had driven this poor store owner over the edg . 
 for merrili milbert of san jose 's rose garden area , aesthet , sturdi , and the excel of it cook caus her to lay out about $ 1 , 500 for a hard-to-find 1947 wedgwood with six burner , two oven and two broiler . 
 `` the feel we get is that this is go to be a veri hard winter , `` mcente said . 
 `` we re go to face a rather hard winter , `` said ambassador viktor komplektov . 
 whi is it so hard for men to be just friend ? '' 
 work on : presid of the bay area pagan assembl , christian help found the organ `` becaus it 's hard for pagan to find other pagan , `` she say . 
 but her friend , too , find it hard to categor ardanell dishon . 
 we do n't quit know the outcom of this episod , except that geraldo rivera was last heard mutter , `` well , good guest are so hard to get . . . '' 
 for all that , there are still those who say it will be hard for robinson to achiev bo jackson 's level as an endors . 
 `` this was the hardest decis i ever had to make . 
 `` the system make it veri hard to do that . 
 `` the board has to be abl to ask hard question , and ask for inform in a certain way , so it understand it . 
 if you re have a hard time keep up with the eric lindro sideshow , do n't feel alon . 
 still , accept the help will be hard , hill said . 
 but now this conveni silenc is hard to maintain . 
 `` onc you eat this stuff , it 's hard to eat store-bought . 
 the hardest job for embre has been talk his way past polic line . 
 way it 's hard to beat in flavor as well as eas of prepar . 
 what we would now call his lifestyl was hard to squar with class-war precept , make him sort of a limousin socialist . 
 the stake are veri high , and the question will be veri hard. '' 
 may now take up for consider a hard case which seem to requir either no action employ econom pressur or els action that would seem to violat the principl set forth abov . 
 timberwolv 112 , king 94 : sacramento enter the nba record book the hard way , lose their 35th straight road game when a third-quart cold spell doom them to the loss to minnesota in minneapoli . 
 councilman steve blanton said los gato ' properti tax revenu repres such a small overal amount to santa clara counti that `` i find it hard to look at this situat as critic dollar for the county. '' 
 which make it veri hard to be king . 
 but survey and consumpt data show that major diet chang -- and the right chang -- are hard to make : ; ( check ) red meat sale were down over the past 10 year , and the consumpt of grain , fruit and veget was on the rise . 
 `` we need the win , but we seem to make it hard either way . 
 one reason craig and rosen find patienc so hard to come by is their background . 
 most of the draft from the lotteri pick on down is guesswork becaus it 's hard to know how a colleg kid is go to do in the nba until he slap his sneaker on a pro floor . 
 is it hard to retir ? 
 more high formal than `` wait for godot '' , `` endgam '' , and `` krapp 's last tape '' would be hard to find . 
 it ll be hard to knock the smile off my face. '' 
 it would be hard to question that he is n't the best player in the game right now. '' 
 `` that 's the hardest thing for me , `` said barrientez , 23 , who has been in the mental health system sinc age 12 and suffer from mood swing , a condit that is control by medic . 
 `` everyon connect with this foundri has work veri hard to identifi addit busi opportun both within and outsid the compani , `` deer chairman han becher said in a news releas . 
 if girl had to earn esteem in the same way that boy do , they 'd be more like to sweat out the hard subject , where what count is object masteri . 
 without the program , he said , it 's hard for the council to know what the communiti want . 
 `` i would have had a hard time live with myself , play eight , nine year in the minor and get so damn close but never get there , `` he said . 
 but such a claim is hard to prove . 
 it will be hard for an american worker to justifi 10 time the rate of a mexican worker and i know of no american will to work for a tenth of their current pay . 
 it 's hard to take this serious from a govern that spent $ 600 apiec on toilet seats. '' 
 it has been harder to reduc the salt content , but that has n't hurt the municip golf cours where the effluent has been use experiment . 
 that 's alway hard for me to swallow. '' 
 organ fraud ring file ten of thousand of claim annual for soft-tissu injuri such as back and neck sprain that are hard to prove medic . 
 as the tower celebr it 50th anniversari today , it 's hard to ignor the contribut it scholar have made to conserv caus of this countri , nowher more startl than dure the reagan administr . 
 no hard one to duck ; dure jane pauley 's interview with pete rose ( to be telecast sunday ) , she ask charli hustl if his agre to the interview was just a public relat `` hustle. '' 
 add to that list the black charact featur on two new drama -- `` i ll fli away '' ( a clean woman ) and `` homefront '' ( a chauffeur and his janitor son ) -- and you get a televis pictur of black life move from good time to harder time . 
 a hard lesson await mani of the nation 's 45 million schoolchildren and their teacher this fall : how to make do with less . 
 today , say mfa 's julian , `` it 's harder to tell if a suit is italian , or french or american. '' 
 moreov , the general emphasi on short-term gain , base on quarter report , make it hard for the manag , except in veri larg compani , to invest in long-term research . 
 the town archiv , watch over by the mayor and the esteem prof. juckenack , are particular hard to crack . 
 he conclud , `` to me , premium are hard to swallow. '' 
 is a flavor that might take a littl get use to- not becaus it is unpleas , but becaus the flavor is hard to defin in the light of our experi with other fruit . 
 a garden found out the hard way this weekend that in los alto , more than leaf blower should be quiet . 
 he 's been 94 on the ray gun , that 's on the slow gun , and even a littl bit harder , `` kuehl said . 
 for such a well-market , well-receiv new team , the shark are have an aw hard time work out a cabl deal with the sportschannel network . 
 sexual harass may be difficult to defin , make it hard to come up with simpl rule -- the do 's and don't of how to harass sexual without violat titl vii of the 1964 civil right act . 
 but it is harder to wonder , with guid light such as georg bush , the acceler nation debt , the junk bond loss and twice the bank failur as occur dure the depress , just how much of this mess we creat ourselv . 
 democrat decid ; it will be hardest of all for the democrat , and the arithmet give them the upper hand . 
 east side union high school district figur it will cut one class out of everi senior 's day -- make it harder to take music , art , drama , even a foreign languag . 
 `` it 's go to be a hard thing to look at guy after go through someth like that. '' 
 like milosev , yeltsin prefer issu decre to the harder task of persuas . 
 `` in come year , it will be hard to believ how low bond yield ( the flip side of rise bond price ) will get , `` said gari conway , presid of conway , william & foster in menlo park . 
 add sutcliff : the cub ' veteran pitcher , who underw shoulder surgeri last year , found it hard to suppress his emot after thursday 's comeback victori . 
 with all those pretti girl around , they had a hard time '' . 
 although both herd and individu yield have now been surpass by friesian cow in this countri , it would be hard to find so mani cow of uniform excel anywher els . 
 it 's pretti hard to redeem yourself after commit three error and bungl a double-play attempt , but san jose giant second baseman frank carey came about as close as you can get in game 2 of the california leagu northern divis playoff seri at municip stadium on saturday night . 
 for one thing , gain in product -- an import element in the inflat equat -- are hard to achiev dure period of declin econom activ . 
 i find it hard to believ rolm could be so inconsider as to do this and ruin a beauti , peac famili event . 
 he has gone from a kid who fought take colleg prep class -- `` i was n't think about go to colleg , so whi make it hard '' -- to a young man with an a- grade averag who sometim spend lunch in the librari and who want to be a doctor . 
 their hard road to freedom led them through drought and famin , against u.s. opposit and a billion-dollar soviet militari slaughter . 
 in small class , teacher can teach , not just maintain control , and it 's harder for kid to hide out in the back row . 
 but now john say he 's decid to give up his 23-year career as a carpent , in part becaus of arthriti and in part becaus consist work is too hard to come by . 
 `` i hear it 's real hard , `` said vanc , who just return to the bay area after work in nebraska for a year . 
 the child may be disori and hard to awaken and calm , but usual return to sleep quick with littl or no memori of the event the next day . 
 so far , mbari 's scientif contribut is hard to gaug . 
 it 's sure hard on me to pay it with util , rent and groceri . 
 ( the realiti , though , is that attract shopper to downtown san jose -- even with valid come-on -- still is about as hard as tri to sell new shake roof to california hill-dwellers. ) . 
 `` they spoke with a degre of knowledg , experi and currenc that was hard to overlook. '' 
 was the hard way to fight a war but thoma did it without make ani disastr mistak . 
 it becam a littl harder to purchas a hous on monday , especi for first-tim buyer . 
 make the transit from the middl east to the bay area was n't hard , he ad . 
 unfortun , the display is hard to read , the batteri do n't last long enough , the processor is about to be obsolet , and the whole thing weigh too much . 
 `` this busi is hard enough without the council tell us how we can serv and who we can serv to , `` peterson said . 
 it 's hard to see someth the same color as the sand or shadow , but the same thing would be easi to spot if it was red or orang . 
 call me squeamish , but i found it hard to work up an appetit at that point . 
 `` we did n't have mani opportun , and it was hard to get ani continu , `` redskin coach joe gibb said . 
 ( box ) her stori : this is ekstrom 's assess of her season : ; `` i had n't been in gymnast for so long that it was hard to come back . 
 `` juvenil are veri hard to place , `` said salli brennan , execut director of cupertino communiti servic , a non-profit social servic agenc that work with the court on the altern sentenc program . 
 and the sidewalk is stain with oil becaus , and this may be hard to visual , section of what appear to be the sidewalk are actual for vehicl park . 
 it 's pretti hard to believ . 
 seem alway in motion , it 's not hard to imagin the stocki `` hurrican '' rosenberg in his youth , move down the basketbal court where , as point guard , he call the play . 
 trader said the biotech group has been hit as investor take profit amid a realize that the recent rise in the group was base on specul that might be hard to bear out . 
 i said , abe , you are a hard man to fool. ' `` ; ivin was write about neighborhood after that , but too mani time , such descript as `` a beer-gut belli '' got chang to `` a protuber abdomen. '' 
 american sens he was `` one of us '' -- make it the hard way in a demand world , sometim proceed awkward , sometim even cheat . 
 87 percent are good driver ' ; the reason are not hard to comprehend . 
 `` i guess we ought not do it , but sometim when they get it start in the stadium , it 's hard to resist. '' 
 it 's hard to imagin that the tan , muscular man kick a soccer ball up and down athlet field from mountain view to los gato six day a week ever could have been uncoordin . 
 it will be a hard move for roger angel , 70 , basebal writer and fiction editor . 
 `` it 's been veri hard to be back , `` she said . 
 besid , it 's hard to be too pessimist when the museum is open an addit that will give it almost as much galleri space as new york 's fame whitney museum of american art . 
 the harder of the two battl is , of cours , the one in india , sinc here the institut of cast has the momentum of three thousand year of histori behind it . 
 it 's hard to miss the river inn , becaus it 's the first outpost you come to after carmel , and a sure sign that you re now , offici , in big sur . 
 ( check ) if your duct are alreadi insul : it 's harder to find out if your duct leak . 
 `` it 's hard to say how far down the nikkei will go , but it could eventu sink as low as 23 , 000 point , `` said hosaku endo , a trader with dresdner secur . 
 -- loretta corral ; san jose ; fiscal fiasco hold econom lesson ; a hard econom lesson is be learn by our feder , state and local agenc : you simpli should not spend more money than you have . 
 the real solut is to get rid of the gun now in circul and make it a lot harder to get new one . 
 feder spokesman ian barn said it was hard to accept the valid of sele ' medic excus becaus she continu to play in the new jersey event . 
 but for dedic to the caus , it 's hard to top char krumwied , director of volunt for the silicon valley chariti ball . 
 the newly-releas stanford studi of homeless famili is a veri help descript of the hard live of homeless parent and children . 
 `` if a man 's not a man , then it 's hard to be romant , `` he say . 
 it 's realli hard to joke with him about it , `` said speaker brown , one of vasconcello ' closest alli in the assembl . 
 meet are hard to schedul , and citi employe who spoke candid in the past seem less forthcom in the presenc of their boss . 
 i ll admit that be on the monterey peninsula of california is better than be in the `` inner citi , `` but it 's pretti hard in ani case to maintain a sens of self-worth when you re not sure where you re go to eat , sleep or go to the bathroom . 
 with so few left , jew here say it is hard to have faith . 
 as a mother and a work woman , i can tell professor banner that motherhood is much harder work than ani 9 to 5 job . 
 it was hard at san jose state to communic with coach berry. '' 
 thank to it menu system , it 's not hard to imagin capit gainz appeal to the new , small investor . 
 the nile ' special , with ground beef , onion , spinach and swiss chees ( $ 3.95 ) , is a real meal to set you up for a hard day of process word or deal in concept , not to mention ani real work you may have to do . 
 `` it 's hard to say , `` feeney said . 
 it 's hard to say when thing first go wrong for the 25-year-old castro valley chef . 
 `` at the hardest part , take a break and do someth that 's fun and come back to the rest . 
 there was a sens of power and charisma about him that is hard to define. '' 
 chang some of their hit to an acoust arrang for the current tour was n't as hard as they thought it would be , oat say . 
 from the top - san jose comput engin eric larsen may have surviv a shark attack while surf off davenport in juli , but the economi 's bite is harder to dodg . 
 from the highway , you can see the outlet center sign , but it 's hard to see the center itself . 
 `` those hour were hard for me . 
 it 's hard to think about leav peopl and a place from which i ve deriv such enorm satisfact . 
 buckley has impress them with her patienc and determin , but may not fulli realiz how hard it will be just to go home again . 
 it 's realli hard to tell . 
 it 's hard not to hope . 
 `` take no notic , `` he said cheerili of his quasimodo outfit , though it was hard not to . 
 `` that way , it 's harder for them to point finger '' when thing do n't work , king say . 
 it may be hard to imagin anyon from the cast of abc 's `` carter countri '' earn an oscar nomin , but griffith did for 1989 's `` work girl , `` move into the front rank of movi star . 
 for exampl , the success of talent black figur in the cultur industri -- such as bill cosbi , oprah winfrey , spike lee and arsenio hall -- is not simpli the result of their hard work and excel ; it is also the result of an unpreced open of white america to black human . 
 it is hard to imagin how that puni fire you had so much troubl start , and struggl to keep go , could creat such a big problem until you realiz that about 1 million ton of wood are burn in more than 700 , 000 bay area fireplac and stove each winter . 
 but have admit so mani of the failur of central plan these past few year , it may be harder to put the idea of market-ori econom reform back in the bottl . 
 oftentim the hardest part of decor a room is put in the finish touch . 
 design is hard to beat for timber hunt or for pack in a saddl scabbard . 
 after all , his dallas-bas mesa limit partnership lost $ 209 million last year , so it 's hard not to be humbl . 
 it was so hard to shoot , we lost our origin end '' -- someth connor did n't know until he went to a recent rough cut view of the film . 
 the essenti activ , persist and , at time , person involv by the presid may be hard to sustain as his domest and intern agenda compet for time and attent . 
 it never was hard for hosin to lose himself in the sport . 
 we re have a hard time get them together. '' 
 `` it is hard to say if anyth in the bulletin-board world has reach that level , where it is privat but somehow take on a public qualiti , `` rose say . 
 the look : our victori red test vehicl was hard to miss . 
 sure , it 's hard to accept the fact that , after spend year studi to take on challeng career such as architect , or communic profession , or market execut , the onli actual posit you ve been offer is drink fountain gum remov . 
 my brother told me that he heard from an electron technician that 8mm camcord are harder and more cost to fix . 
 by the time he becam the frontman for the administr 's effort to stigmat civil right bill as `` quota '' legisl and to overturn constitut protect against arbitrari search and seizur , it was hard to recogn the man he had onc been . 
 `` it 's hard to do what you want to do when you have one. '' 
 most notabl , malon repeat contend that an `` angri '' secur and exchang commiss went out of it way to give mip a hard time , badger the compani with endless question about the prospectus and request dozen of chang . 
 and , he ad , `` without financ , those compani have a hard time grow to a point where they will ever qualifi for bank loans. '' 
 it is hard to stay sad about the death of theodor geisel , becaus he invent so mani antidot for the poison of sad . 
 that song featur the sweet-voic ball and the raucous barton on a call-and-respons refrain : `` when you re all alon -- '' / `` without love. '' / `` it 's so hard to go on ! `` / `` night are long . . . `` ; produc rebennack play organ , piano , percuss and guitar on the album . 
 in addit , santos-killin say it 's hard for the group to take their volunt board member and turn them into effect fund-rais . 
 `` that 's the hardest part of do thing like this ; you do n't anticip how much will realli happen. '' 
 with more single-par household and more mother in two-par famili who work outsid the home , it 's harder for parent to squeez in time to meet with teacher , mineta ad . 
 `` it 's hard for us to work in a place that 's generic. '' 
 lotteri offici , meanwhil , have attribut sale declin larg to hard econom time . 
 but nobodi know where a spare $ 200 million can be found , and 20 percent fee increas are hard to sell , although the univers of california -- untrammel by the legislatur -- is go for 40 percent . 
 that hole has alway been hard for me to make par on . 
 this can be unsettl and also make it veri hard to know where the bid is . 
 `` it 's go to be hard for ani doctor but him to read my mris , `` he said . 
 now it 's hard to find a garlic detractor anywher , especi this weekend when the gilroy garlic festiv attract it own special brand of deadhead . 
 yes , a lot of mda 's client ( not necessarili `` patient '' ) are kid , but do you know how hard it is to becom , and be treat as , a self-respect disabl adult in this societi ? 
 `` even if we occupi iraq , we 'd have a hard time find everyth , `` said gari milhollin , a nuclear arm specialist . 
 `` it 's hard for us becaus we want to be like the averag peopl . 
 `` a few peopl tri to give me a hard time , `` he said . 
 i continu my assault on the door , but without ani peripher vision , it 's hard to line up the hound head with the open . 
 uncoupl can be civil even if break up is hard to do . 
 `` i kept hear peopl complain how hard it was to order lunch after 1 or 2 p.m. , `` say asher-tourn , the former chief chef at san francisco 's carnelian room , so his lunch `` hour '' now stretch from 1 to 5 p.m . 
 it 's hard to imagin that we could feel affection toward each other work on the bill or our hit-or-miss effort at a budget , and some day the best we can do is exercis patienc with each other . 
 for worker at bart 's cash-handl build , the ironi is almost too hard to bear . 
 `` it 's hard to imagin pete wilson without otto bos. '' 
 name are hard to hear , especi if rush . 
 congression aid conced the grow possibl that final action on the crime packag may have to be delay until the start of a presidenti elect year when compromis are often harder to reach . 
 pinedo say he 's learn the hard way that live with hiv can be a roller-coast ride . 
 ( check ) the new peg system for anchor the net still allow movement of the post but make the net much harder to dislodg . 
 when you re addict , it 's hard to quit , `` said caitlin kerk , a spokeswoman for the lung associ . 
 arm flail and the wind in my hair , this was n't so hard , i thought , until we slow down again to that dread canter . 
 it would be harder for the person thing , the toilet and all that . 
 ( check ) `` i do n't got no futur realli as a boxer , `` mickey rourk said after his first bout , and it 's hard to believ he has a futur in film , talk like that . 
 `` he ca n't throw yet , and now it 's hard to ride the bike , `` craig said . 
 exact how the financi mess at foothill-d anza ever got this far is hard to understand . 
 singl parent is hard but it beat live with a man who is never wrong and make you feel like noth . 
 if the thing had to be done , it could n't have been done better -- although it 's difficult to understand how the money to build it could be found dure the great depress , while the money to repair crack in the carv is so hard to find today . 
 it 's go to be hard rais a daughter on my own , `` accord to the report . 
 outsid support is hard to come by for christina and other in the teen success program , which is design to help teen mother prevent other unintend pregnanc , motiv them to stay in school and teach them long- and short-term life plan skill . 
 `` it 's hard see your father get taken away . 
 if start seed sound too hard or your garden is veri small , use start seedl in six-pack . 
 `` sometim the simplest dish are the hardest to do becaus the dish has to stand there alon , nake . 
 it 's veri difficult to get peopl to convict someon to begin with , and to get them to convict someon who has good motiv and good intent is a far harder task. '' 
 it 's just that in the two-part open , we do n't get much of a feel for the new folk at the station , and without know how they ll work out it 's hard to say how the show will work out . 
 icarus speak to the younger reader without condescens ; inde , it 's hard to say what it is about icarus that disqualifi it as stimul adult read . 
 it was hard to tell just how rusti holm might have been becaus anderson simpli was no match . 
 `` it 's been veri hard , `` damodar shastri , a priest at the templ , said wednesday . 
 even with the huge rise in new start in santa clara counti , mani develop are still find it hard to obtain financ to build . 
 `` then it get pretti bang up and is kind of hard to hear. '' 
 harold c. simmon is veri rich , veri smart and often veri hard to understand . 
 as test method improv , east german doctor develop a techniqu known as `` bridg , `` in which athlet stop take steroid sever week befor a major event and replac the drug with inject of testosteron , which was quick excret and therefor harder to detect . 
 serious , pictur of dave are hard to come by . 
 but exact how to super serv them is the hard part . 
 `` now that we come forward with the evid , this inform is harder to ignore. '' 
 and although most journalist shi away from cite unnam sourc -- particular such a pivot one -- the rest of matthiessen 's case is airtight , and it is hard to argu with anyth he write here . 
 and it is hard to ignor how vulner a worker can be when he or she depend on the boss for econom surviv . 
 she did not know , but the contrast between these two dark , bent figur collect the hard , dusti weed and the flower garden of plenti around them remain in her mind 's eye for some time and put her out of humour even befor she had reach magda 's flat . 
 it 's veri hard sit here not be abl to do what we can do. '' 
 the strang truth is that 1991 deficit is probabl better than it sound , which would n't be hard , becaus it sound so terribl . 
 bolster , presid of the nation dri bean council , know more than most peopl how hard it is to talk peopl -- and not just kid -- into eat more bean . 
 agreement on project of valu to the whole communiti has long been one of greater miami 's hardest task . 
 pool of talent is smaller ; the reason are hard to pinpoint . 
 it 's much harder to get into law school today than it was even six year ago . 
 random hous , 263 pp. , $ 18.95 ; from mark salzman 's two book we are remind of the follow : truth often is stranger than fiction ; nevertheless , fiction is harder to write . 
 find class will be so hard that terri dicianna , chancellor of hayward 's chabot colleg , predict tri to enrol in his two campus will be like shop in a russian supermarket : 
 `` it 's hard to let go . 
 it is hard to imagin that the presid -- who recent stood on the expans lawn of a roman villa and declar that the unit state is not in recess -- regular shop at j.c. penney . 
 `` it 's hard for me to believ that those three babi are ours. '' 
 i have a hard time believ that i 'm almost 90. '' 
 it 's veri hard to be here . 
 talk radio is a hard format to sell to advertis , especi when your communiti 's small busi are cut corner to rebuild from an earthquak . 
 i believ the hardest task we have right now is build a consensus among the smaller citi and counti . 
 it 's hard to argu with that kind of decis , and hard not to admir a new hotel that sell older wine at fair price . 
 albert feel the same way , although it 's hard , he say , to let go of the memori of the old hous . 
 while it 's hard to argu that desk-top comput have n't boost individu product , comput system can creat as much troubl as benefit . 
 iraq surpris the expert by use a well-known , old-fashion , unclassifi and hard-to-detect technolog in it pursuit of high enrich uranium , the heart of ani atom weapon . 
 chicago conting of modern critic follow aristotl so far in this direct that it is hard to see how they can compar one poem with anoth for the purpos of evalu . 
 `` it is hard to fathom . 
 true , it is hard to imagin a la recherch without charlus ; yet it is at least arguabl that , if proust had made charlus a woman , and albertin a perfect normal heterosexu girl , the novel would have been , qua novel , neither better nor wors than it is . 
 onc insid the bodi it is hard to extract and caus perman damag . 
 what 's so terribl about that ? ' `` ; in the 1990s , it 's hard to pull off all this 1940s blind passion without fall into self-parodi . 
 `` that 's aw hard to do against a ballclub like the pittsburgh pirat , `` he said . 
 it 's hard to tell whether scaffold that mark some build is for repair or new construct : the architectur conform regardless . 
 even if the citi council approv the project tonight , as expect , the hardest part is still to come . 
 it 's veri hard to screw down a lid on a societi that has seen as much relat freedom as the soviet union has seen in the last coupl of year , `` lyman said . 
 it 's hard to tell you whi i like `` the torkelsons. '' 
 is it realli much harder to believ david duke than it is to believ that ted kennedi is sensit to the concern of women , or that clarenc thoma never voic his opinion about abort ? 
 that was a differ problem : music with so much baggag that it was hard to find caniparoli 's choreographi . 
 `` the first two year out were even harder than be in prison , `` castillo said . 
 they had n't expect to worri about such somber matter as will so earli in their live , but it was n't so hard realli , they said . 
 some of them he learn the hard way , `` said huntsvill pitch coach bert bradley . 
 diner will have a hard time spend more than $ 5 or $ 6 for a good , full meal here . 
 `` i had somewhat of a hard time right afterward , `` said woodcock , who was a 6-3 , 260 pound defens lineman for the detroit lion from 1976 to 1980 and for the san diego charger in 80 and 81 . 
 still , it is hard not to be impress by the e . 
 calcul the loss of attorney ' fee is a bit harder . 
 ( check ) it 's hard to flatten pet food and tuna can becaus they have a round lip on the bottom . 
 onc he get go , he 's hard to stop . 
 thus , if baker doe not find a way to resolv the question of palestinian represent , it is hard to see how a confer can begin . 
 the hard life of polit it is well known that no platform nor ani program advanc by either major american parti has ani purpos beyond express emot '' . 
 along with their parent , they re scrambl to stay upright in this wind-driven world , and sometim that 's hard ; sometim they get knock down . 
 an hour 's perus of our nation charter make it hard to understand what the argle-bargl is about . 
 `` when you deal with that kind of ( margin of ) error , it 's hard to say what 's happen , `` said dr. michael mare , a zoologist at the univers of oklahoma who is an expert on central and south american tropic habitat . 
 mcdonnel think she got the backbon she need as an actress becaus she was a competit swimmer when she was grow up : `` it was n't hard for me to develop the idea of disciplin and pressur and have to be readi at the moment the whistl blow , and you re on. '' 
 back in the hall of parliament , the polit leader dedic to lead their nation into independ say they know it is hard for their peopl now . 
 `` the hardest thing for me is if someon die , `` say young . 
 it is not hard to imagin this lead to a confront like one that occur in 1968 between then secretari of state dean rusk and abc newsman john scali . 
 it 's hard to know how to react to such tidbit . 
 hodg has marvel presenc , but she 's so angri it 's hard to like her . 
 hard for the therapist to grasp are those instanc in which the patient is manifest an introject traceabl to someth in the therapist , some aspect of the therapist of which the latter is himself onli poor awar , and the recognit of which , as a part of himself , he find distinct unwelcom . 
 we met a barrel of rich men but it 's hard to find the real thing when you re young , beauti and the toast of two contin '' . `` 
 while all will have roof over their head , moriarti said the fire will make it harder for his group to find afford , independ live arrang for former psychiatr patient . 
 `` i 'm sure it was a littl hard for some guy to swallow when they look at the qualifi sheet and saw she had finish ahead of them. '' 
 emot , it would be too hard to tri it again. '' 
 there 's probabl a silli look on his face , although it 's hard to tell with insect . 
 make a new machin and send out offici of duli ascertain fit for a great work of social reform is no child 's task ; but this task was even harder , for a new central organ had to be fit on a heterogen and confus but alreadi exist system of relief and control of ex-slav ; and the agent avail for this work must be sought for in an armi still busi with war oper , -- men in the veri natur of the case ill fit for delic social work , -- or among the question camp follow of an invad host . 
 their crew are face hard choic as they seek navi billet elsewher , ashor or at sea . 
 was shout and breath hard and close his fist on the pillow . 
 becaus depression-glass kitchen item are increas hard to find , faria often buy just one piec of an item at a time . 
 `` most parent have a hard time leav a child at a child care center , and the parent who work at syntex are abl to reassur one anoth , `` samoff said . 
 it would be hard to imagin anyon not feel emot about the tragedi that occur on the sacramento river , but to those who knew the river , it is overwhelm . 
 becaus of the panoram format , you may have a hard time keep the horizon level . 
 it was hard to settl on just three entre , as i was also tri to negoti the bangkok chicken linguin ( $ 7.95 ) with marin chicken breast , julien carrot , green onion and roast peanut in a thai-peanut-ging sauc . 
 for sheer spirit , it 's hard to imagin how we ll top it when our own arena open in two year . 
 mayb , although it 's hard to see how they re anywher near as good as they re play . 
 as for `` becaus it is bitter , `` `` i just rememb how hard it was to write . 
 `` this has been the most thrill year of my life and the hardest. '' 
 `` but it 's hard convinc peopl that they re wrong. '' 
 the stori goe back three year when `` susan '' was pregnant with twin and have a hard time do her housework and laundri . 
 `` it 's hard to go into detail , `` appl 's chief financi offic , joseph a. graziano , said in an interview this week . 
 as hard as it is to believ , with the except of wait ' well-nam wolfi , no one leav much of an impress . 
 the game was n't out of the ordinari by a 's standard at 3 hour , 18 minut , but it 's hard to believ good pitch could look this bad . 
 it seem hard to believ that nanci reagan , the former first ladi best known for her love of expens cloth and eleg parti , could have play a central role in fashion the polici of the reagan administr . 
 is harder , he mutter , to medit on man ( or woman ) than on god . 
 q : was it hard to get the music communiti to take you serious after keith partridg ? 
 `` there were peopl there , the fire burn from there , it 's hard to imagin ani other possibl , `` he said . 
 `` it 's realli hard to put it in one word like that. '' 
 ( box ) to start a screw in a hard-to-reach spot , push the screw through a slit in a piec of mask tape , adhes side up . 
 `` it 's so great know a woman who actual know how hard the field is , who has travel the road , who encourag me . 
 q what hard decis will your successor have to make ? 
 deni women combat experi , ireland right note , make it harder for them to climb up the militari career ladder . 
 the sound of sappi ; meanwhil , over on the network , it would be hard to think of a stupider-sound seri titl than `` the torkelson , `` the down-hom sitcom that make it debut tonight on nbc . 
 schrader said there 's plenti of overtim to go around becaus the job are extrem demand and it 's hard to keep employe . 
 `` there are so mani of them articl carri on about my chest that it 's hard for peopl to look at me in the face anymor . 
 i found the beatif and beam randal harder to stomach than the demon version , who unload on his divorc mother ( jobeth william in the latest in a seem endless string of thankless support role ) and favor his obnoxi absente father ( christoph mcdonald of `` thelma & louis '' ) . 
 the arrang make it hard for an upstart firm to break in , sinc it must take these cost out of profit , equiti or borrow . 
 player are awar of this paradox ; it 's one reason they often tend to keep non-play at a distanc -- they know it look easi and they know how hard it is . 
 it 's much harder than do someth total out in left field with no regard ( for sale ) . 
 among the believ gather to wit this pass- ( box ) scale sacr peak , page 9c ; ( box ) seder for soviet emigr , page 9c ; ( box ) church battl over mayan , page 9c ; ing , parallel to the easter stori are hard to ignor . 
 it 's hard to say what mandela , notic grim-fac next to his jubil , fist-rais wife as they left the courthous , will do if her convict is upheld . 
 lord , it 's hard to have one child over there . 
 `` we had a veri hard winter here . 
 `` you ll have a hard time sensation ( the stori ) this month , `` said cuddi , manag of the los alto offic of sevill properti . 
 `` the way they just went out and roll over peopl when everybodi was after them realli impress me becaus that 's so hard to do , `` she said . 
 `` noth about this is go to be easi , `` said lt. col. hu blazer , a u.s. armi mainten battalion command who learn the hard way in vietnam the limit of air support in a ground war . 
 the object under construct is rare if ever worth complet for itself , nor is some immedi justif for discontinu the work -lrb- e.g blunt tenon-saw or shortag of 1 1/2 screw -rrb- hard to find . 
 it 's hard to get a good pictur of what happen when you emerg from bankruptci court . 
 it 's hard to imagin when view st. john 's forward malik seali 's fluid and product style of play that the bronx , n.y. , nativ lack the confid as a teen-ag to play the citi game . 
 is it get harder in this time of layoff and budget cutback for the boss to get along with employe ? 
 it 's hard share a dement sens of humor . 
 dure the long , dr. zhivago winter , life get even harder outsid the citi , and mani soviet port freez shut . 
 katz said that though the unit state `` wo n't pull the plug '' on deal alreadi complet , it obvious will be hard to extend credit in the futur unless thing chang in the baltic . 
 even though it 's hard to specul what realli happen to the lord mayor 's appoint or elect , if one were a wager man it would be worth bet a drachma or two that lawrenc of stone found a way to becom king . 
 it 's hard to fume and yawn at the same . 
 `` it was real hard get start again , `` say hauser , laugh . 
 whi one can not predict that some of our children and perhap all of them will experi the same sort of reaction after similar train is hard to understand , yet so convinc are educ that aesthet experi is no more than a caprici and individu matter of tast that they find this sort of evid unconvinc . 
 it might be even harder to concentr with a big lead . 
 stolen chip hard to trace ; when the stolen chip infiltr the market -- mix in with legitim sold chip -- they becom extrem difficult to trace , polic say . 
 but she 's have a hard time get white men to believ that . 
 with the nation case count climb toward 200 , 000 , it 's hard to cling to the naiv belief that life is under our complet control . 
 but vice princip len jacqu said student are not allow to promot polit positions. ( dot ) page 1b ; busi ; more busi news ( dot ) section d ; recess has hit state ; far harder than first thought ; california has lost 240 , 000 job dure the recess , near seven time greater than earlier estim , state offici report . 
 `` prematur death is alway hard to accept . 
 `` it 's hard for me to believ '' that the fact bush is a son of the presid did n't play a role in ryan 's decis , said rep. bruce f. vento , d-minn . 
 on one hand , it 's hard to leav a success seri ; on the other hand there are other thing she want to do . 
 con maloney , who own the jackson met befor the team pull out last year , said , `` to believ they told their peopl to maim someon , that would be aw hard for me to accept . 
 the propos measur also would make it harder to obtain visa , reinforc personnel at immigr post and set tougher penalti for employ who use illeg immigr worker . 
 after the war , we will discov a vast pool of anti-saddam feel among iraqi not in his secret polic ; inde , it may be hard to find a saddam support among the myriad `` good '' iraqi who will swear they did not know anyth about the atroc against the kurd . 
 `` if you make it too hard for the tenant it is n't go to work , `` cobb said . 
 when i ask peopl nearbi to keep their radio off , they act like i am crazi and give me a hard time . 
 it 's hard to imagin mr. burman as a nobel laureat on the basi of these charm but not realli moment fabl . 
 the hard part is choos which util packag to buy . 
 `` duct tape is veri hard to get fingerprint from , `` said pennington . 
 was certain now that it would be no harder to bear her child here in such pleasant surround than at home in the big white hous in haverhil . 
 but becaus it jump from one locat to anoth -- through no fault of it own ; blame redevelop and an earthquak -- it was sometim hard to track . 
 as the most tan , most blond young men board the yacht for a tour of alcatraz , it was hard to imagin them live somewher other than in california . 
 `` i know i had a hard time focus . 
 probabl was n't hard for him to keep his nose to the grindston with noth but edyth to come home to . 
 frank , it 's hard to imagin barbara bush expos her shoulder in one of these dress , but on mani women it could be a flatter look . 
 where all the blame should rest , it is hard to say ; whether the bureau and the bank die chiefli by reason of the blow of it selfish friend or the dark machin of it foe , perhap even time will never reveal , for here lie unwritten histori . 
 fish and recreat group are push hard to gain access . 
 it 's hard , even , to rememb what bcci mean ( bank of credit and commerc intern , actual ) . 
 `` he 's a hard charact becaus he 's so power , but he 's also kind of soft-spoken , `` she said . 
 an easi laugh may be hard to find , but we were determin to locat a decent comedi club on a recent saturday night . 
 `` it might be hard for some black peopl to tell if this is a slap or not , becaus some black peopl are so use to get slap , `` said public enemi spokesman harri allen . 
 it 's hard to pinpoint whi this happened. '' 
 yet it 's not hard to understand the impuls to procrastin . 
 mani mere mortal have had a hard time understand how ivana -- who has been waver over the settlement -- could just say no to that kind of dough . 
 although nurs in the pediatr depart long to leav their cramp quarter , it will be harder for nurs at the old children 's hospit to say goodby to their comfort adob , red-til roof campus . 
 `` this program is hard work . 
 not a retail by train or natur , ahm said he has learn some hard lesson . 
 `` it was the hardest and most frustrat thing in my life . 
 bermuda is a place where it 's hard to retain the reflex fear that so mani travel are feel , sinc it 's hard to conjur up too mani terrorist in this pastor , peac place . 
 board member jan becerra is hope she wo n't have to make a hard choic between educ the district 's parent and it high school student . 
 had the hardest pain of grow befor him now , as he approach twelv . 
 today , most lay peopl or tourist would have a hard time find ani trace of oil along the sound 's inlet and crag , and mani speci of anim , includ the otter , bald eagl and assort water bird , have bounc back . 
 -- j.d. vanderlaan ; los gato ; do n't let your pet get spook oct. 31 ; halloween is around the corner , a hard time for our four-leg friend . 
 it 's hard to beat free . 
 his music is subtl and soft and , for me , hard to resist . 
 it 's pretti hard , but we have reason price . 
 there are onli seven legitim candid among the 24 game , and it 's not hard to throw out two of them : pittsburgh-lo angel in super bowl xiv and dallas-baltimor in super bowl v . 
 i 'm readi when you are , coach ; nebraska 's punter is mike stigg , but it 's hard to tell . 
 onc you ve master basic polenta -- which is n't so hard to master -- you can top it with a varieti of sauc . 
 it 's not hard to believ this is the album lynyrd skynyrd would have made if not for that 1977 plane wreck . 
 it 's relat easi to run plumb to first-floor bath through a basement or crawl space underneath , but it get harder on upper floor , where there may not be enough space between the floor and ceil to instal pipe proper . 
 becaus of the use of special terminolog , the newer mathemat subject may be meaningless to teacher in the school -lrb- or even to some univers mathematician -rrb- , but this doe not necessarili make them harder for the student . 
 the busi qualiti of the pattern integr odd-shap space that are hard to unifi , such as a bedroom , dress room and bath or a room with eav and beam at odd angl . 
 one of the key to develop a nest egg so you can be financi independ is to `` pay yourself '' each month , which is as hard to do as stop smoke or lose weight , young say . 
 arab in the anti-iraq coalit also are find it hard to resist a feel of melancholi about this iraqi enemi -- fellow soldier on the receiv end of a lopsid pummel from the sky . 
 `` be a coach off campus is veri hard , `` tobeck said . 
 it 's hard enough drive . 
 but he had a hard time persuad cash-strap compani to pay him to reinvent their wheel . 
 that littl guy ; `` it 's hard becaus peopl want to know you re a certain thing , `` he say . 
 yet , surpris , they introduc an insidi frailti in the information-process chain which is hard to fathom . 
 `` they keep say ( the turtl are n't real ) , but i find that hard to believ , `` he say . 
 `` it 's pretti hard to get a big head when you get these strang look and catcalls. '' 
 notic of meet often are bore and hard to understand , she said . 
 the match was hard to make . 
 `` this is what 's hard , `` she said , slip her patient a coupl of biscuit , which he gobbl down in second . 
 so when continent decre that women must paint their face , it would have been hard to find a more suitabl challeng . 
 but hammer is right : it 's hard to determin what peopl want , and even then , give it to them is a touchi point -- especi when you do n't have much money to get it . 
 after year of think like that , it will be hard for appl programm to feel open and comfort with ibm 's hand on the keyboard , too . 
 which , given the circumst , was not that hard to do . 
 now , `` it 's hard to find ani real pocket of strength '' in the sector , said economist gilbert benz of the swiss bank corp. in new york . 
 in privat interview with district administr , central servic manag , account leader and other repres , the auditor heard the same stori : `` the chancellor is hard to work for ; he shoot messengers. '' 
 `` this game is so hard , `` william said . 
 but given the consider sovereignti assum in the interim by most republ govern , it is hard to visual how deputi from republ like ukrain can be persuad to attend a new session . 
 `` it was hard to sit there and listen to everyth about the defend and noth about our love ones. '' 
 it seem like a normal , sane person would start easi and get warm up befor tackl the harder anagram . 
 it make their grim futur as pawn of humankind even harder to take . 
 it 's kind of hard to imagin he did , but sad to think that mayb he did n't . 
 `` i feel there is a certain seren about this locat that 's hard to duplic , `` he said . 
 everi time a cruis missil land and each time an awac plane took off in the persian gulf , it was hard to restrain myself from shout : `` my god , how mani head start slot was that ? 
 the concerto for orchestra is one of our centuri 's classic ; the `` miracul mandarin '' suit , from the danc piec , is harder to bring off , but adam bring out it gutsi passion of the macabr . 
 breakdown in polic disciplin are inevit in everi depart , but the public hear littl of it becaus intern investig and polic shield law make inform hard to get . 
 recip for the special sauc are hard to find , but jamawatr was gracious enough to share her . 
 `` it 's hard not know when your futur 's go to arriv , `` said coonerti on thursday . 
 make the t-1000 move like a believ human be was one of their hardest task . 
 and a report who heard someon say someth damag , but did not have a tape record run , might have a much harder time convinc an editor to publish the quot . 
 it 's realli hard to continu work there becaus no one come up and say 'i know what 's happen , ' even though i know everyon know it is . 
 brown trout , the hardest fish in the lake to catch , also are caught by toplin with rebel or rapala accord to martin . 
 it 's hard not to hear reno . 
 be tough is obvious a lot harder when your subject is right next to you rather than stare into a camera in a differ room . 
 then again , it would be hard not to improv if the onli thing you can do in practic is shoot free throw . 
 and she would tell her father , colleg professor alann steen , how hard it has been dure his 4 1/2 year of captiv to guard her emot . 
 my work schedul made it hard to go along and my wife said i should n't make the effort becaus i would n't `` fit in. '' 
 it 's hard for me to rememb now the first impress , i ve seen the movi so often . 
 seifert , who is 36-11 as a head coach and perhap learn a number of hard but necessari lesson these day , will need to evalu his assist with the idea of alter some respons , if not the cast . 
 the hardest part is know the threat exist for your whole life. '' 
 diet woe ; oh , it 's hard to diet when all around you are munch constant . 
 these chang could occur in all or just some of your hair follicl , stenn said , so it is hard to say how dramat differ your silver hair will be . 
 it was hard to imagin anyth of byrn 's match the eleg simplic of copland 's pastor ode . 
 `` think about how hard it is to get these joe to use a condom when they know they could die from a coital act , `` say gabriel baili , director of the contracept develop branch of the nation institut of health in washington , d.c . 
 ( box ) `` take it on faith that the first five year are veri , veri difficult , that the first one is particular hard and that your first job will probabl not be the ultim job. '' 
 `` it 's go to make it realli hard for work and non-tradit student to continu their educ , and it 's go to make mani student ceas their education. '' 
 it would be hard for the state to say where . 
 from liz smith in new york ; a love letter ' first : it 's hard to believ , but over the past two year and the countless product of a.r. gurney 's `` love letter '' that have been perform both here and abroad , the two-charact play has never featur an interraci coupl . 
 it 's hard to keep come up with incent to keep you focus on your bodi . 
 `` the game here are hard , but fair , `` say santa cruz high junior mike mcguin , now in his third year at the boardwalk . 
 the democrat propos is intend to overturn 1989 suprem court rule that civil right lawyer say make it harder for plaintiff to win employ discrimin suit . 
 `` a low-cost produc like bofa can do a lot better , but it 's hard to get the return on equiti that 's exceptional. '' 
 it would be hard to ask for more . 
 short of station peter arnett atop kelley 's roof in georgetown , in fact , it is hard to imagin more of an all-out blitz to get to the bottom of the big stori -- or at least the big question . 
 hour after hour last week , it was hard not to sympath with the woman known on most channel as the `` alleg victim. '' 
 thirti year with unit way are hard to shake . 
 hors and hound have had a hard time in go like porridg , and except long day , and even in the bigger establish there are sign of wear-and-tear . 
 `` i tri not to think about it but with everybodi ask me about it it 's hard not to , `` maddox said . 
 `` it will be hard for all of us to see some wonder , passion and talent employe leav the company. '' 
 `` it 's hard to explain , to put into word , `` becker said of reach the top of the rank . 
 `` rememb how hard it was to catch ( former panamanian presid manuel ) noriega ? 
 gentl reader -- sure it is hard enough to get someon to pass the potato , without the ad burden of poll them on how they feel about it . 
 `` hous was hard to find , and there was a vacant bed in the hous . 
 `` look , this medal is a lot harder to wear than it is to earn , `` say former boatswain 's mate 1st class elliott william , now a 60-year-old retir u.s. marshal from palm coast , fla . 
 `` and even if i were readi for the risk , the law here are alway confus and contradictori , and it 's hard to believ that what is true for today will be true for tomorrow . 
 sinc then , it has becom hard to detect a heartbeat at some u.s. hotel . 
 it 's not onli hard on the women , but children who lack a secur famili life suffer a lot . 
 bark is loud , noisi , repetit , easi to locat and hard to ignor . 
 the blackhawk have 12 new face on their roster , and some of the player are have a hard time understand the logic of move made by mike keenan , the team 's coach and general manag . 
 for exampl , flat-panel display have becom an import part of the chain , and if we get decim in it and the japanes or anoth parti domin it , it will be veri hard to keep the rest of the chain go . 
 and it will be hard for presid f.w. de klerk to pardon her without inflam the passion of right-w white and perhap quit a few black . 
 `` it 's hard not to think of win , but you tri to get it out of your mind as quick as you can , `` he said . 
 `` it 's a veri interest place to work , but i can see whi some peopl have a hard time imagin what it 's like , `` say nate gossett . 
 with that feel , if you do n't feel bad about what you re do , if you do n't feel guilti , it 's hard to be a crimin . 
 it 's hard to believ , but it 's true . 
 `` thing like friend , `` keef said , tri to explain his decis to remain at stanford , `` it 's hard to assign a dollar figur to that. '' 
 the citi will have a hard time replac him with someon of equal calib . 
 the paradox is that babyc promot a hard-to-get servic . 
 first report said the town of dzhava , 60 mile northwest of the georgian capit of tbilisi , was hardest hit . 
 howev the recess end , poverti specialist say , signific number of poor and unemploy peopl are go to have a harder time get past this econom downturn than the longer , harsher recess of the earli 1980s . 
 `` i had to learn it the hard way , but i 'm still just a countri girl . 
 of the hardest chore a detect has is hang around on a citi street , tri to make himself inconspicu , keep an eye on the entranc of an offic build and wait . 
 one 46-year-old woman , who had just been laid off from a 14-month temporari job at a local electron compani , said posit in her field are much harder to find now than dure the last nation recess . 
 the umpir said it was hard have to work sunday night 's game . 
 `` it is hard to say how mani children need care , `` said helen blank , a senior child care associ in the non-profit famili support divis of the children 's defens fund , base in washington , d.c . 
 but they multipli so rapid that it is hard to tell how long they will take to becom numer enough to destroy veget and nurseri stock . 
 but dos is too hard to use , so window is put on top of it . 
 but even if you live around the corner , it 's hard to help while handl other respons . 
 without know the peopl involv , it 's hard to tell whether fair is racist . 
 it 's a hard book to adapt , but i think this might be the right time for it . 
 it 's hard enough for folk to pay all their bill in these tri econom time without have to pay to replac smash window , too . 
 it 's veri hard to explain . 
 it 's hard to give up that kind of easy-money lifestyl , say rhonda owen , a doll hous manag . 
 that 's too bad , becaus it send the wrong messag to the network budget slasher , who will make each succeed intern crisi harder to cover . 
 it 's hard to believ that more good fiction could be scrabbl out of those 669 squar mile of red clay , but brown is equal to the challeng . 
 ready-to-drink red wine are sometim hard to find , which is whi mirassou 's non-vintag lot no. 4 zinfandel is welcom . 
 and manag an institut across the countri might be hard . 
 of cours , it 's hard to shake the defeatist mental that exist in cleveland . 
 it 's hard to tell from the synops whether the seri will wrap up with a neat end or a lot of loos end still unti . 
 virtual unemploy in the 50s , as either writer or director , sturg conclud : `` it appear that i had develop a reput for be too expens and hard to handl to boot . 
 one thing that is hard to track is mainten . 
 he said it is harder for compani to achiev dramat cutback becaus job and econom well-b are often relat to water consumpt . 
 but bushman and other say the hardest part is not simpli submit the draw and applic to the counti . 
 it 's not hard for john dotter to draw his own conclus . 
 `` it 's realli hard to believ , `` edberg said of his fifth career grand slam titl and his first of 1991 . 
 prime minist p.v. narasimha rao told india on saturday that it face a serious econom crisi that could onli be resolv by hard decis , new foreign invest and an end to the ineffici that crippl the countri 's growth . 
 that 's the hardest part of this job , talk to extrem smart peopl who have forgotten how to speak english . 
 `` it 's been hard on some of the student here , especi after the cori gordillo incid , `` princip david duncan said . 
 `` the first coupl of day were hard . 
 she slip into the famili as though she belong there , but the adjust was hard anyway . 
 as i wade into this year 's batch of christma goodi , it 's hard to be too empathet . 
 it 's hard to rememb the detail , but i look at the instrument and could n't see them for the smoke. '' 
 `` it 's hard for peopl to rememb to turn off the light in those big hall , especi when they think other are come in , `` miller said . 
 but at the same time , most peopl will say irv is sort of hard to get to know. '' 
 the lack of attent paid morri is n't that hard to understand . 
 the first step , chamber say , is get the orchid plant out of the pot , and this can be harder than it sound if the root complet fill the pot . 
 palm ; it 's hard to tell whether a damag palm will pull through , carman say . 
 this is familiar ground , and it is hard to see how the distinct can be rigor carri through ; `` have an independ mean '' is probabl equival to the fact that a gloss can be given by a nativ speaker to the word in isol , and this is like to be a matter of degre rather than of a binari divis into two class . 
 thing are harder for the music inclin . 
 `` onc the time chang occur , it 's hard to make nighttim practic , `` he say . 
 `` when you lay em flat , they re hard to see , `` dolli varga explain . 
 `` she call me at home and said , 'i know it 's a hard time , but we were just wonder if we could expect you back to work or not , ' `` adam say . 
 `` did n't arti call the theater and say 'i better be treat fair , or they ll be blown away ? ' `` ; bajo repli , `` what he realli said was someth like -- excus my languag -- 'f -- - em up. ' `` ; mariah found it hard to understand how this could set off her uncl jim . 
 or mayb it 's just hard for a bar band to be a bar band in a rehears , pack amphitheat show . 
 laird point out , though , that `` it 's hard to keep a handl on statist . 
 it is as if a gray spot has cover up these topic , too , make it hard to see clear . 
 it 's hard enough bring up a child with a partner to help , much less alon , which is whi onli half of the women who go to the network 's meet consid the rout go ahead with it . 
 `` but the bottom line is i lost in the first round , so it 's hard to get over positive. '' 
 also , fewer qualifi peopl are enter the workforc , so it 's harder to find high skill worker . 
 which onli made 16-year-old richi silva jr. 's death in a 1984 traffic accid that much harder to accept . 
 so onc again it come to hard choic for women and their famili . 
 `` it 's never easi to say you were in jail , and to say it was under those circumst was so veri hard , `` said stanley toshio hara , a retir ford motor co. worker who live in berryessa . 
 `` it 's hard to comment on anyth we have n't seen , `` she said . 
 `` it 's harder to get peopl to stop drive cars. '' 
 he who fill that role will be hard-press to match the number amass by charl , who earn a scholarship to divis ii portland state . 
 it 's hard for me to understand the justic there , `` rita baumann , presid of the blue earth counti human societi , said of the sentenc by nicollet counti district judg warren litynski . 
 `` it 's realli hard to believ the yanke wo n't take him , `` brock said . 
 `` we have a hard time do anyth together. '' 
 `` it 's hard to tell what the futur will bring . 
 even hurley say : `` it 's hard to believ we can come out posit in that matchup. '' 
 becaus it 's so hard to read : to appreci a novel , to get ironi , to get joke , and all that , you have to be an extrem good reader . 
 but 500 year later it 's hard to keep straight what came from where . 
 no mortar shell ; the marin stuck on hill 99 also point out that it would be hard to serv as a deterr , sinc they have littl or no ammunit . 
 `` it 's that ephemer , hard-to-pin-down sens of feel better when you exercis , `` say judi mahl lutter , presid of the melpomen institut , a nation organ that research women 's health issu , base in st. paul , minn . 
 for about $ 5 a bottl , it 's hard to beat . 
 fast-ris countri music star lorri morgan understand two thing well : how to sing and write hit song and how hard it is be a work mom . 
 it 's hard to believ peopl were onc abl to do that without a trace of ironi . 
 women rape by men they know -- either a date or anoth male acquaint -- have a much harder time recov from the trauma than women who are rape by stranger , recent research show . 
 `` it 's hard to defin broad zone . 
 `` it 's still hard to believ , `` wallac william said wednesday even , clutch his son 's photograph in the dim light live room of his oakland apart . 
 `` it 's hard for either jami or i to replac brent , `` wall said . 
 it 's hard to imagin ronni schell star in dead poet societi , team with eddi murphi on saturday night live , or even be a wild and crazi guy -- but then , mayb schell is just too funni for what the citi 's becom . 
 `` our player have done it the hard way to get to 7-3 . 
 `` it 's hard to believ , but there are still some peopl around here who do n't want peopl to know their son or love one die of aid , `` nanez-cedillo said . 
 if , inde , the `` truth '' could be for sale , it would be hard to imagin it better packag for best-sellerdom than here in `` under fire. '' ( box ) 
 `` i ve made a transit in this area , too , although it 's veri hard . 
 the bill would : ; ( box ) revers six 1989 suprem court decis that made it harder for women and member of minor group to win job-discrimin lawsuit against employ . 
 `` it 's hard for a lot of peopl to imagin that thing in their own person environ are hazard to them , `` said adam finkel of resourc for the futur , a washington , d.c. think tank . 
 it 's aw hard to walk in the water . 
 in an age when almost ani repeat activ can be consid an addict , it 's hard not to see video game as the no. 1 obsess of today 's youth . 
 and it is hard to say what winter will bring . 
 it 's hard to believ that the farmer in pierc , neb. , could be so naiv . 
 `` it 's realli hard to tell , `` jackson said . 
 i think it would be hard to explain this kind of variat with a natur object , even a small one. '' 
 gleisher , who ran the advertis campaign in young 's first mayor race , said the polic depart has been `` a person tool of his , `` ad , `` he is go to have a hard time restor confid in it. '' 
 vcrs are flash `` 12 : 00 '' from coast to coast ; last octob , the new york time editori that the hardest part of adjust to the end of daylight save time is reprogram the digit clock on vcrs , coffe maker and microwav oven . 
 seem hard to believ pbs 's `` masterpiec theatr '' will celebr it 20th anniversari this weekend . 
 with the news full of stori of war crime and prison exchang , it 's hard to rememb that there was a time -- not so long ago -- that we were toast the end of the cold war and look forward to `` the peac dividend. '' 
 but it 's hard to keep up , becaus the rtc still has an estim $ 160 billion worth left to sell , plus the asset of hundr of s & ls that are target for takeov dure the next two year . 
 `` it 's hard to find nice cloth on the west coast ; i travel and i buy a lot of my cloth in the east . 
 it 's hard to tell what impact , if ani , these studi have had . 
 `` peopl who are gay will be come back who fought , and the militari will have a hard time explain whi that happen becaus our presenc is suppos to be disrupt in the militari , `` paul di donato , execut director of the san francisco-bas nation gay right advoc . 
 that is n't hard to imagin , especi after they ve seen their presid come beg for notic from indiffer washington . 
 the rate are higher for custom who live in hard-to-reach area of the citi or those who do not place their can at the curb . 
 how israel and the arab state could reassur one anoth enough to disarm is hard to imagin . 
 as libel trial are usual long and expens , news organ tri hard to avoid them . 
 unauthor demand draft are extrem hard to detect becaus they re usual done on high-qual laser printer and look profession , adamski said . 
 the budget cut rais the ire of some palo alto parent , who fear chang in bus servic might make it harder for their children to get to school . 
 when you get in the system , it 's hard to get out . 
 it is veri hard for me to believ that you took the life of ani human be , much less my wife. '' 
 `` time are hard and i need to feed my children , `` said one man , explain whi he turn in three small-calib handgun . 
 `` it 's hard to believ you can lose nine of 10 and then come back with a game like this , `` molitor said . 
 it may have been accident , but when i spun around , he call over his shoulder : `` it 's hard to drive over the media. '' ) 
 `` it 's so hard , i ca n't even begin to tell you , `` said isaac , who 's still look for a full-tim clown job . 
 sinc vietnam and waterg , it has been hard to read a newspap ani morn or listen to the night news without be told of some leader in govern or busi , even the church , violat his trust or the law , then lie about it . 
 the cours is hard enough with ani kind of weather condit . 
 the chang has been hard . 
 fashion trend for men are harder to distinguish year to year , although there appear to be a movement toward casual look . 
 it was hard to develop empathi for theodora and her plaster-saint person . 
 but as an anti-defens organ , it 's hard for now leader to put their heart into such an effort . 
 the prepar may be the hardest part . 
 truli delici but hard to match with food . 
 candid joe huber point out there may not be much differ between mobster and lawyer , but my famili and the voter had a hard time with that one . 
 i have n't yet read the johnson control opinion , but i have a hard time believ the court went that far . 
 make the most of anti-theft technolog , automak are introduc car with high advanc electron control as well as more pedestrian measur : metal that are harder to bend and lock that are tougher to pick . 
 on second thought , it 's not so hard to tell . 
 ask whi it was so hard to get organ , he said : `` this . . . has been a massiv fire and it has been unpredict . 
 `` most of the hard stuff has alreadi been done , `` he said . 
 `` peopl alway ask , what about the children ? ' and i want to say , what about the children ? ' `` say margaret , `` peopl assum they re go to have a hard time. '' 
 `` it 's hard to say exact becaus some senat are alway under 65 and some usual go over , `` cave said . 
 westmont and prospect are among the hardest for most student to reach . 
 she made the hard choic of send him to america , not understand that he was unequip to surviv . 
 he just think it will be hard to prove with current technolog . 
 their beach are still soil , the street are dirti and reliabl domest help is hard to find . 
 it 's a hard task , becaus the new bit look sort of old and old bit look sort of new . 
 the wonder smell of food cook in pastri is so invit it 's hard to beat . 
 as late-afternoon traffic hurtl down mission boulevard from interst 680 and ohlon colleg , it 's hard to believ that just behind mission san jose stand seren the most endur religi institut of educ in southern alameda counti . 
 i must confess that the hardest part of review fratelli deli , for me , is order someth other than their italian combo ( dri salami , mortadella , cotto and provolon , $ 3.75 ) or their godfath sandwich ( turkey breast , salami , mortadella , provolon and italian pepper , $ 4.65 ) . 
 and it 's hard to believ they ve been at it for 15 year use the same three chord . 
 ( check ) a crock of a dish , $ 20 -- `` never smile at a crocodil '' is good advic , but hard to follow onc you see the crocodil butter dish at puttin ' on the ritz , los gato . 
 `` and it 's even harder when you consid what rick has been up against . 
 take up the slack ; q i 'm have a hard time tri to exchang a pair of pant at the eastridg emporium store . 
 but , the choic to refus food and water -- as eula oleson did -- rais this issu : ; how hard should health-car profession tri to chang their patient ' mind ? 
 whatev happen , it 's hard to imagin kim ever work on an assembl line , provid the elbow greas to make product that such nation as the unit state need but are no longer abl to produc econom . 
 `` we had a hard time pin down sex , age or racial discrimin , `` said selig kaplan , foreman of the juri . 
 it 's hard , in a global industri , to determin which car and part are foreign and which are domest . 
 the question of japanes attend at the pearl harbor commemor was a hard call for organ . 
 if you have a hard time not buy , stay out of store , or when you do shop , take onli the money you must have for real need . 
 the program are oper by a mous , featur a lot of color and snazzi graphic , and have extens tutori and other featur to walk user through the hard part . 
 `` it 's harder to find each other anyway when you consid that black are onli 12 percent of the popul , `` said bart landri , a sociolog professor at the univers of maryland and author of a book call `` the new black middl class. '' 
 the empti seat in physic scienc class was a hard lesson for oak grove high school student wednesday , the day after an innoc game took a tragic twist . 
 onc those larg procedur issu are settl , the hard part begin . 
 but in a brief review it is hard to convey the sheer tour-de-forc imageri and dazzl imagin that radiat from this short and simpl novel . 
 if the properti is dedic as park land , it would be hard to swap if that opportun aris again becaus that develop restrict can be lift onli by voter . 
 it 's hard to believ in this market that a condom spot that meet with fox 's approv would n't also meet ktvu 's , but such a thing could happen elsewher . 
 `` it 's hard to say that after a game that may have look a littl ugli , but the element made it tough out there. '' 
 but we no longer face such a hard choic . 
 it 's a hard swallow . 
 broader investig involv the fbi and other agenc take month to organ , so wit forget detail and charg becom harder to prove . 
 `` it 's go to be hard to move on , `` bill said . 
 it 's hard to pick the high point of the show . 
 even get us to help ourselv is hard becaus we tend to keep our problem to ourselv . 
 `` it was hard to leav , and i know lisa was n't happi i had to leav . 
 `` now , imagin how hard it would be to confront someon who was the countri 's chief enforc offic for discrimin , `` said otto . 
 also hard to believ , but san jose comedian doug ferrari , who won the san francisco standup comedi competit in 1984 , will be make his first san jose appear sinc then when he open a six-night run tuesday at the last laugh/san pedro squar . 
 he doe n't seem particular interest in the physic and engin involv ; it 's frequent hard to tell from his descript just what 's go on . 
 `` a 20-year-old barolo , with chicken matton and potato salad with salt-cur black oliv , rosemari , garlic and caper , slather in extra-virgin oliv oil , all accompani by chewi sicilian sesam bread , is not too hard to take . 
 it 's often hard to decid whose side is the good , and whose is the bad . 
 possibl reason for the differ : ; ( box ) physician may consid heart diseas more sever for men ; ( box ) physician may regard the procedur as more promis for men than women ( whose coronari vessel are smaller , harder to bypass ) . 
 `` sometim , a rooki has to learn the hard way , `` padr manag greg riddoch said . 
 garcia said the park worker find it hard to keep up with the drop . 
 ask whether he thought one of the nation 's largest bank could be near collaps , bowsher said : `` just how much troubl they re in is veri hard to determin . 
 this week , the nfl 's lead rusher , barri sander ( 640 yard , seven touchdown ) almost certain will get 25 to 30 carri , make the defens 's job against the run-and-shoot that much harder . 
 they re even harder to live through . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to explain. '' 
 `` you feel bad for somebodi -- but , we were get a babi , so it was hard to feel bad. '' 
 `` it 's hard enough get school work done , and we ve travel a lot . 
 i 'm on the heavi side and hard to fit . 
 `` i tri not to let the pressur get to me , but be from here and all made it hard , `` said acker , who graduat from santa cruz high . 
 for true show-must-go-on dedic , it 's hard to top danc teacher venis taaff , who direct 350 kid from her on your toe danc studio through their recit at the saratoga communiti center -- onli one day after taaff had given birth to her own littl dancer , megan christin , at communiti hospit & rehabilit center of los gatos-saratoga . 
 `` it was n't so hard for me , `` he say . 
 guzman said the pressur of the pennant race is hard to ignor , but he tri to do just that when he 's on the mound . 
 `` it 's get harder to sing ( soprano ) , everi onc in a while it ll crack , `` said rice , who live in fremont . 
 it 's just hard to believ that someon is cast him in this role . 
 life is hard , those peopl said , and then you die . 
 it is hard not to find someon in coultervill who doe not know jenkin or his famili . 
 with the physic train have come other hard lesson that have made women stronger mental . 
 the second hardest are the smoke ham becaus the smoki tast overpow the tast of the wine . 
 as hard as it is for areia and other to fathom , the california retail associ report that loss on credit oper last year total $ 32 million at carter hawley hale , $ 26 million at may co. , $ 14 million at maci 's california and $ 13 million at mervyn 's . 
 `` it 's hard to get peopl veri excit without a militari threat , `` say gaddi smith , a diplomat historian at yale univers . 
 pain as the eros of his skill was , quit the game was harder still . 
 a littl too pack , perhap : with four co-chair and 25 other member , it 's hard to imagin it move quick , even though that 's what hammer want . 
 it 's hard to put a young guy in that predicament. '' 
 although they re hard to decor , the larg entranc hall can take on extra and quit use function . 
 i know the hardest thing he ll have to deal with is be scared. '' 
 is not hard to find that concurr of opinion which fromm find so remark when you ignor all who hold a differ opinion . 
 they were an `` enrich '' sampl , among whom drug effect might be more appar than a random select group but much harder to interpret and analyz . 
 `` this council had a veri hard task after the earthquak , `` said campo , who contend that the council need his busi skill . 
 inde , the fed 's latest survey of bank lend show busi loan , home mortgag and consum credit are continu to becom harder to get . 
 `` unfortun , when you re make a will , it sound great at the time , but it 's go to be a hard decis , `` fellman said . 
 she 's come to term with it , but it 's still hard for her to talk about it. '' 
 unless you can offer equal attract sale term , as your seller is do for you , it might be veri hard to sell that home . 
 lynch had alway thought arbitrageur would be hard to convict on insid trade . 
 thoma h. wilcox , an investig for the nation transport safeti board , said the plane was make a land approach friday night when the pilot encount problem with his radio speaker and had a hard time hear the control tower . 
 when the score is 8-4 , it might be hard to say the game hing on one defens play . 
 `` it 's go to make it hard on a lot of these peopl , `` said ben lairson , 67 , a retir mechan . 
 is it realli that hard to slice butter clean or put it away neat ? 
 as a practic matter , the polici is harder to enforc on domest flight , which do not requir passeng to show passport . 
 becaus ray drive his car to work everi day , we re pretti sure that it doe have an engin , but it 's hard to locat . 
 `` it 's hard becaus you have to hit the ball so high with a driver , `` dali said . 
 over the next few month , the godfath of soul will offer music that 's veri hard to refus . 
 `` my gut reaction is that it was the right thing to do . . . and even look at how hard it was , i would do it again becaus it was the right thing , `` she said . 
 these thing are hard to declin individu . 
 inde , the industri has had a hard time keep up with the continu demand for gulf war item . 
 sue had an appeal , an elus qualiti that was hard to defin . 
 ray hard to studi ; gamma ray , born deep insid atom nuclei , are difficult to studi . 
 i did n't want him to be a black bat ; i want him to be someon with whom the reader could identifi ; someon who has had a hard life. '' 
 still , it is hard not to conclud that this subject get far more attent than is warrant by it actual constitu . 
 popul increas slowli , as though the condit of life were more than usual hard . 
 yes , and would n't it be hard to give up those old smell that linger in memori ? 
 i think probabl the first year would have been the hardest , but that 's onli a guess , `` bruce steen said . 
 even lender of adjustable-r loan , often the onli vehicl for first-tim buyer in high-pric area , are becom harder to get . 
 day and logan show that the a-effect occur with outlin circl but not with filled-in circl : it is hard to see what explan could be offer for this at present . 
 without know that , it is hard to remedi specif problem -- the veri reason for assign regular essay . 
 `` to us , there 's no differ between look for a blood bank supervisor or a chief financi offic -- except that a blood bank supervisor may be harder to find , `` howz say . 
 mobil missil , for instanc , are hard to keep track of , although they must be display under the treati . 
 `` the environ of a combat ship at sea for long period is difficult for men , live accommod are veri close , and privaci is veri hard to ensure. '' 
 it wo n't be easi becaus fund for art group is hard to find these day . 
 it is hard to escap religion in a church , even if educ program are not explicit religi . 
 analyst said that group schneider 's $ 78-a-shar propos , which came in the form of the letter to stead rather than through a formal tender offer , might be hard for squar d 's director to turn down . 
 it 's hard to see how the board can win now . 
 `` for one thing , it 's hard on the mine for them to be idl for so long. '' 
 `` onc you borrow money , it 's hard to pay it back right away , `` he said , say that car payment and rent eat up more than half his $ 2 , 290 month salari . 
 and sinc the pay is n't enough for a deposit on an apart or even a room , it would be hard to mourn it loss . 
 tip : money workshop ; c onsum credit counsel servic of santa clara valley will present a free workshop on manag money dure hard econom time on saturday , april 13 , from 9 a.m. to noon at the sunnyval senior citizen center , 820 mckinley st. , room 201 , sunnyval . 
 that judgment is subject to opinion , but it 's hard not to believ that life in the town is somewhat bizarr . 
 `` it will be a hard winter for the home buyer . '' 
 even so , offens are n't hard to find . 
 `` yet it 's hard to find evid for that , either direct or indirectly. '' 
 becaus thing are kind of panic struck out there , anyway , it 's veri hard to ask an audienc to come in and be more anxious without give them someth in return. '' 
 one , john hageman , who run a small move and storag compani , and who got stif for $ 500 , describ how hard it was to catch up with her , even after win a judgment against her in small claim court . 
 shwe , a real estat broker , will have a hard time shake the `` pro-develop '' label , which seem to be poison in cupertino . 
 it 's realli hard for me to respond becaus it realli doe n't matter to me whether she get a job , get marri or becom a lesbian. '' 
 after the show , mcmillan is feel especi good , though it 's hard to imagin him ever be less than affabl . 
 becaus mani pitcher use a wind-up instead of a stretch in this situat , it is n't hard for a baserunn to pick up the move . 
 prairi dog are littl underground rodent that look kind of like walter cronkit and are sometim consid a hard-to-get-rid-of nuisanc . 
 some tv produc believ stand-up becom , by necess , good actor in order to work success in front of crowd , so the transit to work with other should n't be hard for them . 
 not onli will choic be limit , but with the sever cut to extracurricular activ , student -- through no fault of their own -- will have a hard time convinc privat or out-of-st colleg that they are well-round student . 
 but it 's hard to imagin that other cultur would be abl to divest themselv of sexist stereotyp when a so-cal feminist group ca n't even do it . 
 `` you have so much money and you have to make some hard decis . 
 even though the hardest part of be steve martin is `` you re alway fight for privaci , `` he say he doe n't take his success for grant . 
 as he did , the difficulti of the art of poetri , and believ that the `` onli technic critic worth have in poetri is that of poet '' , he felt oblig to insist upon his duti to be hard to pleas when it came to the review of a book of vers . 
 drexel burnham lambert discov that the hard way . 
 as for the rebel forc now on the offens , the diplomat say they are will to discuss peac and power-shar becaus they feel that addi ababa could prove harder to hold than to captur . 
 `` i had to leav home the last road trip and go join the team becaus it was extrem hard and extrem frustrat , `` he said . 
 keep the part fresh in a long run , harrison suggest , is harder than crack it in the first place . 
 debbi gasparini , market specialist for san francisco-bas levi 's , say the compani doe n't have detail on the survey so `` it 's hard to comment. '' 
 the task is n't hard , and the tree should surviv if you follow seven basic step . 
 `` it 's hard for me to stop them from learn . 
 but the hardest thing to see was that he use a chair for more than a third of his perform . 
 she say drug babi are hard to love becaus they ca n't bond . 
 `` we ve had a hard time keep up with the demand. '' 
 and it 's requir of me that i forgiv , no matter how hard that may be . 
 such a tradit lie behind the iliad and the odyssey , at least , is hard to deni . 
 even in chicago , as she clutch bottl of champagn press on her by friend who want to share in the celebr , kit sutherland seem to find it hard to grasp that her father was realli free . 
 the council member said peacock 's experi and abil would be hard to replac , but they also state their action was meant as a show of support for the staff assembl by peacock . 
 `` it 's hard enough to make the decis to take someon 's life , but when you do n't have all the evid , it 's an outrag , `` juror jill darmer told report befor the hear . 
 `` but it was hard to put a finger on it , becaus everyth sound so nice . 
 `` it 's realli hard to know who is go to be compet , becaus it depend which girl each club decid to bring -- you know , who 's hurt , who went to the last competit , `` he said . 
 some band are hard to classifi . 
 as for disturb the peac , banzhaf note : `` it 's hard to argu that men who paid admiss to see 8-foot genit on the screen would have their peac disturb by see a small genit next to them. '' 
 she say a dog 's scent scare wildlif from the trail , and without a leash , it may be hard to control a dog that meet up with a bear . 
 becaus of the hard choic , schneiter recommend that the council studi all the altern in the controversi traffic plan befor them . 
 `` whi is it so hard to get the nation republican leadership to face the fact that the 1980 , 84 and 88 platform ' abort plank are out of step with the rank and file of our parti -- let alon the american peopl ? '' 
 it 's go to be hard. '' 
 `` it 's particular hard to win a yes ' campaign , `` ad karen cooper , who manag the lose bid to give patient the right to ask for aid in die . 
 crop circl -- larg , photogen disc and ring that conveni appear in english wheat field in the usual newsless summer month -- are hard to studi . 
 `` that 's not equiti and it certain will make it harder for peopl want to sell home becaus of the inequ , `` hudson said . 
 a bleary-ey bonior said thursday that the democrat , who talk up their all-night on morn news program , succeed in hammer home the messag that the democrat `` want to be identifi with the peopl who are have a hard time '' while the republican are `` busi take care of the millionaires. '' 
 and it may be hard for small saver not to follow , expert admit . 
 it 's limit in product compar to other upper deck card , but the compani say it 's not suppos to be ani harder to find than the special michael jordan-bat practic card that was salt into the basebal set . 
 and , as everyon know , joseph schildkraut won best support actor for the life of emil zola , ' not for romanc of radium. ' `` ; veteran oscar-watch , i ve learn ( the hard way ) , are n't veri forgiv . 
 ani writer will tell you that write short is a whole lot harder than write long . 
 `` it ll be hard play the laker without magic , `` warrior point guard tim hardaway said . 
 `` but the tree and other matur plant are not cheap and it 's hard to replac them. '' 
 ( check ) `` i ve read a lot about what meryl streep has said concern the role of women in film and how hard it is to get a decent part , and i want to go : and you know what , meryl -- i 'm black ! ' 
 oppon of the fee increas said the new structur would make it hard for peopl to qualifi to buy home in campbel , and it was unfair to make develop pay for facil that will be a benefit to the communiti . 
 too littl to go around ; `` it is hard to think in term of expand servic when we ca n't even pay for the one we ve got , `` mauriello said . 
 this coffee-t style book , with it beauti photograph , is hard to put down , even if you do n't follow all the gossip about the royal famili . 
 well , mayb that is n't so hard to imagin . 
 it 's hard to deni that wgs ' resum show a disproportion share of wreak wrong . 
 but there are few taimen and they are hard to catch , particular for fli fishermen , so interest has switch to angl for salmon . 
 the hardest job was make the sauc without cream . 
 the hardest thing is find a piano when we re on the road. '' 
 but too often , the anim is given up for no better reason than `` it got too big and hard to handle. '' 
 but instead i becam caught up in their concern : the shrink health care dollar and the advanc of technolog that have creat problem that even a god would have a hard time solv . 
 a white-and-dark chocol terrin was a chocol symphoni in the mouth , but hard -- a terrorist could have hurl it through the restaur window . 
 `` i still think it would be hard for me to shoot someon , but i know that i can if i have to protect my body. '' 
 the catalog from wind & weather present a larg select of sundial and weather vane -- good gift for those hard-to-buy-for type . 
 `` that could be pretti hard up in the mountain , especi in some of those shadi places. '' 
 `` i have a realli hard time with this not be accept , `` rhonda said . 
 `` they do n't know how hard it is to go out there and find a job when you have to carri all of your belong with you . 
 `` i can rememb it be a lot , lot , lot harder in spring train in 89 , have to go back in there and hit again , `` he said . 
 if the rodney king case is such an imposit , then we had better ask some hard question about the role we want our polic to play . 
 while environment law have made it harder for the corp to cement riverbank , the tendenc remain to do flood control as cheapli as possibl . 
 still , western fan are hard to discourag . 
 `` it was a hard game , `` bulldog coach jim sweeney said . 
 azocar 's adventur in the outfield made it hard to tell just how much better the giant play as a result of the meet . 
 anim with larg bodi generat more heat and have a harder time get rid of it than do small anim . 
 there 's no cover charg , but it may be hard to find a spot without dinner reserv . 
 we move toward the next centuri , more confid than ever that we have the will at home and abroad to do what must be done -- the hard work of freedom. '' 
 it is harder to becom that well-known now , kuwata said , becaus `` the unfortun realiti of present-day polit in california is that news organ do n't have the interest they onc had. '' 
 i told him how hard it was to go through , `` lugo said wednesday . 
 sexual harass is as widespread as it is hard to prove . 
 sinc then , he has record one hard-to-find album after anoth -- the most recent is `` destini is your , `` on steeplechas -- and becom a celebr in japan . 
 it 's also hard for them to explain whi they wo n't pass those part of the bill on which they and the administr agre : for exampl , a provis overturn a decis that said exist civil-right law prohibit racial discrimin in employ contract but not racial discrimin and harass onc an employe is on the job . 
 at usair , it 's relat easi for a surviv spous to pick up mile , but harder for other relat . 
 whether pick stock in a self-direct brokerag account or in a diversifi stock fund , it 's hard to ignor the histor advantag stock return hold over save account-typ yield ( 11.1 percent vs. 7.7 percent the last two decad ) . 
 it is hard to imagin how to pick up the piec when almost everi one is gone . 
 but it 's a hard color to produc . 
 it is hard to imagin these children studi long hour about geographi to particip on the show . 
 `` it 's go to be hard to leav here. '' 
 in fact , get reliabl injuri inform over day can be hard , and the ward snafu is just anoth aspect of the info-challeng . 
 other committe member said it was hard to determin whether ford could carri out his threat . 
 `` the women 's movement has realli propos a veri dramat chang in our think about sexual coercion , and it 's a veri hard chang to accept , `` say univers of new hampshir sociologist david finkelhor , author of `` licens to rape. '' 
 `` so it 's hard to tell how they started. '' 
 `` they got veri good posit and were veri hard to get around . 
 and it 's alway hard to leav a success group . 
 the govern is go to have a hard job defend it intent to chang britain 's tradit `` open door '' polici for commonwealth citizen - a polici that goe back to 1608 , when lord chief justic ellesmer declar that jame 1 was `` one entir king over all his subject in whichsoev of his dominion they were born . '' 
 fruiti style ; hard to beat at this price . 
 `` it 's similar to ab 860 and that 's go to be hard for us to swallow , `` walter said . 
 almost half said they find it hard to make end meet . 
 `` but it 's real hard to find the balance. '' 
 it 's hard to pick a favorit , but the hollyhock `` ladi , `` invert flower top with flower bud head , are precious . 
 the owner complain that the ordin would make their properti harder to sell while offer noth in return . 
 but even as the democrat parti 's hair shirt scratch with impli threat , it is hard to detect the old zest for combat . 
 the image-build of canadian figur skater kurt brown is hard to miss . 
 such a rule would almost certain mean that tough , critic articl would have a much harder time find their way into print . 
 i think probabl the first year would have been the hardest. '' 
 we find our own famili the most satisfi part of our live , but think that it 's harder to be a parent `` than it use to be. '' 
 but if you hold your nose and stare , it 's not hard to see what 's happen . 
 but my fear is that it will be hard to get ani real attent becaus of so mani other thing on the agenda now. '' 
 `` as far as how i 'm go to do , `` he said , `` that 's hard to say. '' 
 it 's hard to believ , writer-director john sayl agre , but it 's so . 
 although it 's hard to prove statist , agent and apprais say neighborhood that have been particular suscept to corpor dump includ part of almaden valley , los alto , morgan hill and area along the interst 680 corridor in alameda and contra costa counti , which took a hit last septemb when chevron announc it was transfer some 400 famili from san ramon to texa . 
 ted brigg of los alto , who enjoy a morn of sail , said it was hard to believ he was just outsid the heart of silicon valley . 
 miss manner know that contemporari folk are go to have a hard time believ this , but there was onc a time when peopl who receiv invit were given no instruct at all about answer them . 
 the union citi council member has finish most of his book on `` star hop , `` a guid to help amateur astronom pinpoint hard-to-find object in the night sky . 
 `` this one will be hard to come back from. '' 
 `` over time , fund manag activ manag blue-chip stock portfolio will have a hard time beat the s & p 500 , `` say aaii research director john markes . 
 here you ll store paper that are hard or expens to replac . 
 he said carri a whistl to signal for help , while better than noth , is n't the best method of protect ; it 's hard to grope for a whistl at the bottom of a purs , let alon blow into it when someon 's attack , he said . 
 we re find out the hard way that we can't. '' 
 it 's hard not to marvel at the unremit good fortun of a man who can call the everyday loss of love gone bad and the job be a pain in the ego his worst disappoint . 
 and it 's hard to say , base on a few hair , how big a textur chang you can expect . 
 but glaspi told the senat that her comment refer not to the abc present but to an edit version of the show , broadcast by iraqi televis , which cut out all of sawyer 's hard question . 
 36 percent of femal and 42 percent of male think the women 's movement made thing harder for male at work . 
 although some administr offici remain commit to send fund to the mujahedeen , as the rebel are call , the move reflect increas frustrat that the afghan polici is outmod and hard to defend . 
 there 's plenti to hold your attent , but it 's sometim hard to figur out who 's stalk whom . 
 that latter point is hard to disput , even if , as the program point out , most big-tim univers do not make money on sport . 
 whether averag citizen chang their own behavior in respons to what they experi , see and read of govern , crime and punish , whether they becom less ethic , cheat more on their tax , or just turn increas disgust , is hard to say . 
 hanigan , basic a market expert , assert that it is not veri hard to sell corpor on improv their recruit unit , both as to qualiti of hire and contain cost . 
 it is hard to keep up . 
 `` with a friend it 's hard to say that 'i ve been rape by a friend. ' `` ; hear also encourag student to talk about the role-play charact ' motiv , action and bodi languag . 
 it was a big lesson , a hard lesson , but we need to learn it. '' 
 it 's hard to believ that the land of ninevah , ur , numrud , lagash , uruk , babylon and , some say , the garden of eden is face extinct . 
 `` it 's just hard to believ they 'd increas their budget when other peopl are cut their , includ peopl be laid off , `` he said . 
 an outsid might have the hardest time with the seem nonchal attitud toward death exhibit by near everyon who work in the offic . 
 the transmiss shift so smooth that it 's hard to notic the chang . 
 it 's hard to say exact what came out of it . 
 i did n't take part in the struggl for democraci dure these hard day but i feel deep gratitud and respect for those brave muscovit who went out to the street . 
 relentless question ; the latest lesson has been a hard one as smith 's defens attorney , roy black , has ask the alleg victim suggest question design to discredit her account of be rape by smith at the kennedi famili compound on the easter weekend night they met at a fashion palm beach bar . 
 `` judi has a hard time understand i left simpli becaus our relationship fell apart , `` navratilova said . 
 i trust that you will continu to ask the hard question and seek honest answer . 
 bush : 'a cruel busi ' ; `` general speak , i think there 's an expect , but i keep say that it 's a cruel busi , and that it is hard when you rais the hope of one famili , and onli to have those diminish , `` he said befor tee off at the cape arundel golf club . 
 for their part , the comput compani are afraid heavi dump duti on the alreadi expens screen will make it hard for them to succeed against their japanes competitor in the lap-top busi . 
 the hear , which was to be the first to make hard decis on fremont school budget cut , drew an overflow crowd that pack the citi council chamber and spill into the corridor , where dozen watch the session on televis . 
 health insur and regul should ask the hard question of the medic establish to learn which futur is the likeli . 
 while alumni and friend of both district might find it hard to let go of the past , a merger make sens for the futur . 
 the deal will match up the $ 142 million cirrus -- known as a savvi and aggress market compani -- with the approxim $ 20 million crystal , which analyst say has advanc technolog for hard-to-design analog chip . 
 it 's hard to predict the impact of dbs satellit system . 
 `` it 's a hard question to answer -- how much of the book is there , `` dexter said . 
 but she also said this is abc 's first season of scrambl and that pilfer signal is like to get harder next year . 
 becaus the legisl reli on a broad definit for weapon classifi as `` relic and curio , `` author say some of those gun have becom easier to buy -- not harder , as the bill 's author intend . 
 the wine we tast are some of hardest to produc , need at least 10 year or more to becom drinkabl and will never be cheap . 
 just the other day we thought we had invent the perfect no-moving-part , no-fuel-requir spaceship launcher : a tube 100 mile high and a few yard wide. ok , so it would be hard to build . 
 moreov , the broad declin of u.s. manufactur made it harder for mani laid-off steel or autowork to move into other field . 
 `` and it is import to be as far ahead as you can at a place like this , where it 's veri hard to pass. '' 
 `` it 's hard for me to get up here and say arti , ' `` said jeff armstrong , busi manag of the brother ' o'farrel theatr in san francisco . 
 `` it was hard for them to understand whi she did n't wake up. '' 
 live in the same hous and it did n't seem to be such a hard thing to do , but the sad realiti of lilli 's life and the fact that meltzer did n't love her never satisfi my wish think . 
 `` the longer you stay out , `` she said , `` the harder it is to get back into it. '' 
 `` it 's hard to imagin earn better than this , `` tai said . 
 these factor are difficult to prove , and banzhaf say : `` it is hard to imagin that the almost exclus male patron who paid admiss to see much-larger-than-lif genit on the silver screen would have their peac disturb by see an actual genit display by a fellow patron. '' 
 `` peopl are go to be hard to see , `` said john pike , associ director of space polici for the feder of american scientist . 
 i can be that fearless becaus of my basic browni belief : if the batter tast good and you do n't burn it , then it is veri hard to ruin a batch of browni , to make someth total ined . 
 `` i have a hard time believ they ever had anyth they could prove on him , `` bane said . 
 prove discrimin against mortgag applic is much harder , dunn said . 
 second , run were get hard to come by , and it was get late in the game. '' 
 mistak no. 2 has been harder to figur . 
 `` sometim it 's hard to separ drought damag from freez damag . 
 and in tampa , franchis owner phil esposito is have a hard time pay bill and sell ticket . 
 `` it 's go to be hard to know what you re get with some of these guy , `` grillo said . 
 it 's hard to give that up. '' 
 the contract , like the catech , are main tool for keep research project on cours , someth that often is hard in scienc . 
 point to the larg number of non-earn loan held by both the bank of boston and fleet , moynihan said , `` with that weight on your shoulder , it 's hard to be competitive. '' 
 but when it come to jewish stereotyp , it 's hard to tell the differ between `` bonfir 's '' abe weiss and the evil silent-film jew of 70 year ago . 
 arco 's total alaskan product fell 6 percent last year as well age and declin underground pressur made it harder to get oil to the surfac . 
 `` it 's hard to explain how i feel , `` burrel , 24 , said after a victori gallop around the infield of down stadium on randal island , whose track is consid to be fast . 
 it was hard to get a straight stori from anyone. '' 
 a this is a harder question , becaus while the oil and gasolin market are close link , they do not track each other exact . 
 `` we re either in complianc or work veri hard to be in complianc , `` said clifford burrous , act chief of ame ' offic of safeti , reliabl and qualiti assur . 
 for dessert , we split a hard shortcak biscuit top with fresh strawberri and blueberri and whip cream ( $ 4.50 ) . 
 `` peopl found that the best oven are electr , but they did n't want to cook on the top of the stove on electr becaus it is hard to control . 
 on weekend at the sunnyval public librari 's central facil , it 's hard to find a place to park . 
 it 's hard to tell what director whitney j. leblanc would have done had his hand not been tie by the set design ; but sinc he is one and the same , he has no one to blame but himself . 
 `` one 's reput is rather like a crystal goblet -- when it 's drop , it 's hard to put back togeth again , `` u.s. trade repres carla hill remark when ask about japan 's imag in the unit state after the gulf war . 
 in fact , it 's even hard to get tour pros or golf architect to agre on a definit of an unfair hole . 
 it is hard to exagger how thorough metz has come to domin this market . 
 `` mental , you can be prepar pretti much , but emot , it 's realli hard , `` louis ray , the boy ' mother , said sunday from her home in sarasota , fla . 
 this is n't hard to understand . 
 harder the choic , the more will the leagu is to wade in . 
 flore , who has been use the program sinc last summer said the free lunch have help her famili cope with hard econom time . 
 but their inadequaci as an enemi have long been appar ; it is hard to unit behind a tough trade polici if it result in jack up the price of a toyota or digit audio tape player . 
 `` they had n't been rais to upper mid-level manag , even , and that 's someth that 's hard to explain. '' 
 by now you see how hard it is to catch up with you . 
 one recess lesson that mani busi learn the hard way is not to play it too close to the edg . 
 although it 's hard to predict what the econom mood will be in septemb , garrett is enthus enough about this lineup to predict a $ 1.4 million day . 
 `` no , it wo n't be hard . 
 it 's hard to see how all the variant of aggress could be extrapol from sperm design . 
 mayb , mayb . . . it is hard to know . 
 `` it 's hard enough to get a bill through congress ; it 's level of magnitud more difficult to get a resolut through in the u.n. general assembly. '' 
 `` it 's hard when peopl are worri about lose their job to ask them to sign someth like this , `` he said . 
 `` it realli stress you , and it 's veri hard to learn . 
 it 's hard to believ now , when everybodi who has ever work on a polit campaign end up hang out a shingl as a `` campaign consult , `` but 20 year ago there were exact three heavy-hit profession campaign consult on the democrat side -- and strother was one of them . 
 drabek was better than glavin in the second half and is hard to beat at three ri rs stadium ; glavin was the all-star starter and should be accustom to the commot . 
 it use to be hard for individu tourist to travel in east germani , where the communist govern encourag group travel . 
 pacif spread us out and we play ( a defens ) that make it hard to stop the run . 
 and as their rep i have a hard time ask them to do that. '' 
 `` it 's veri hard to ask a child to care about the environ when they do n't have enough food. '' 
 it has alway been hard for me to cook for two ever sinc , so i got real pleasur when i cook for a number of guest at our inn. '' 
 a sort of revers on cliff robertson 's popular `` char , `` `` regard henri '' is a hard film to warm up to . 
 the result : soviet refuge now are have a harder time find good-pay job and stay off welfar . 
 `` all of these thing are hard to confirm unless you re actual there , `` grench said . 
 it 's hard for them to admit there might be someth wrong , `` said lesli d. corwin , a specialist in partnership law with the new york firm of morrison cohen singer & weinstein . 
 it 's hard to do that in a tv drama , which has to show us someth on the screen and hope to arous our emot with it . 
 when we arriv in st. paul , the local offic of the american automobil associ had a hard time direct us to bethel colleg . 
 but neapolitan have a hard time summar how they feel about him . 
 `` it was veri hard -- less groceri and less go out to eat or ani type of entertain , `` said deann knott , a sorter at stark pack . 
 and presid bush will tout `` increment '' chang -- babi step -- such as a chang in malpractic law to make it harder to sue doctor . 
 last week , a lawyer for harri request a postpon , cite a u.s. suprem court rule april 16 that made it harder for state prison to make repeat feder court challeng to their convict . 
 jeremi iron ; ( box ) magic amid the rubbish ; the shift from stage to screen is hard for some actor . 
 wax that has drip onto the curv and crevic of a metal candlestick is hard to remov . 
 spiritu benefit ; the reward are hard to defin for those who do n't share or experi the total devot to the pure and holi life orthodoxi dictat . 
 she look so clean and sweet it 's hard to imagin she ever had anyth to do with all those nasti movi . 
 the giant , who begin the final first-half homestand tuesday against houston , did it the hard way sunday . 
 `` we knew come in that it would be hard to score mani point . 
 so , you ve been scour the box score and search for overlook sensat , which are as hard to find as the syntax in a sparki anderson quot . 
 a good locat is get harder to find . 
 what 's hard for viewer to understand is that they are mere do the poke and nag and whine that are the standard trick of the report trade -- peopl do n't have to tell them anyth , after all , so they have to worm it out of them . 
 a few of these countri -- it 's hard to believ this was even legal -- did not have televis in the hotel room . 
 `` it 's hard to believ she 's left the hous . 
 so it 's sometim hard for employ and worker to recogn the differ between a spontan express of frustrat and someth more menac . 
 the holiday decor season is just begin , but for origin it ll be hard to beat a christma tree dress to the nine with more than 75 barbi in even gown . 
 he said with all the tv close-up today , it 's hard to get away with anyth . 
 it 's kind of hard when your toe do n't work. '' 
 but research said that with the vagari in report the relat new diseas , it 's hard to tell if it spread realli has stop . 
 in fact , it is hard to imagin a wors perform by the u.s. govern over a longer period of time . 
 the screen are inordin hard to manufactur , and mani must be reject as imperfect , make them veri expens . 
 ( onc a nightmar is in your blood , it 's hard to get it out of your system. ) 
 thursday , recal the incid from virginia , mcquilla , in his huski voic , said simpli : ; `` it was hardest thing i ve ever had to do. '' 
 it 's hard to chalk up the two event to mere coincid , but the time doe not appear to be bush 's do . 
 they have had a hard time tri to realli deliver. '' 
 but the panel could n't find hard evid that prozac or other anti-depress drug caus peopl to commit suicid or violent act . 
 i think we re move into a decad where look into the futur is a lot harder than it was 10 or 15 year ago. '' 
 that should n't be too hard . 
 it 's hard to understand your logic sometim . 
 like oat and updik at their best , howev , bank is a strict realist writer with a remark comprehens and sympathet vision of the human condit and it hardest realiti . 
 `` we can have some fun with each other when we see each other , now that we no longer have to pleas someon who was hard to pleas , `` wood said . 
 q a friend tell me that redwood sawdust is fine to use with hard-to-work soil . 
 i think it 's go to be hard to deal with becaus they built him up so much , but no one 's go to be there for him but his true friend at the end of his career . 
 `` it was hard at first , `` said askey , rememb his first week when he work in the laundri . 
 it ll make it hard to know for whom to root when their segment of the show air in late decemb , but by then you ll probabl forget i told you that the barbaccia won . 
 when one cut through the educ jargon and union ralli , it 's hard not to perceiv that a settlement base on logic , reason and compromis could n't have been reach month earlier . 
 jerri smith is clear a hard man to convinc . 
 she say that `` the hike was veri hard for me . 
 actual , even in show-biz term , it 's hard to know who crawford is . 
 san mateo ; ( box ) it 's hard not to find someth to eat in downtown san mateo . e 
 `` it 's hard to date , `` he said . 
 but it 's hard to turn it in the other direct , becaus our kid are say , 'i ll be the onli kid who doe n't have it. ' `` ; walsh advis parent to blunt the advertis bombard by cut back or supervis their children 's televis view . 
 but it was clear by the time the imsai ( cp/m-base person comput ) came out that it was hard to ignor the royalti check . 
 ( `` go down a 45-degre angl is hard , `` say walter . 
 with the except of the unjust neglect avram davidson , it 's hard to imagin an american writer as well-suit as evan connel to creat that book . 
 it 's hard to know becaus the latrin here do n't alway have mirror . 
 sinc the attent of a male to a senior ladi are nice , as well as hard to come by , i perhap act foolish and permiss for the sake of it . 
 part of my report are so confus that it 's hard to tell whether they re right . 
 it 's hard to start all over again if you lay off too long . 
 it 's hard to sympath with this guy ; he 's just too stupid and woebegon . 
 and so it 's hard to say what the favorit is . 
 it 's hard to miss the absurd of the machin or mcmillen 's plea that we need to organ our scrabble-lett heap of thought into clear languag . 
 lie is easier for such a person , and it 's harder for other to detect . 
 you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good colleg . 
 `` it 's hard for me to understand where the time has gone , `` strasburg say . 
 it 's hard to imagin anyth that should be more privat than the moment of death . 
 it seem hard to believ the dull joe cotten could have charm ani widow in hitchcock 's `` shadow of a doubt , `` but for harmon it would be a piec of cake . 
 it 's a no-risk deal , it sureti so obvious it 's still hard to understand how it confus the bureaucrat who boot the deal around for month . 
 `` ani famili that has more than two or three children in this valley has a veri hard time find afford hous or ani hous , `` brennan said . 
 yet 80 year later , surround by crime and crumbl hous , it 's hard to believ ani citi ever had the answer , let alon knew all the question . 
 so domin was the cardin 's 38-21 victori saturday -- accentu by vardel 's 182 yard and three touchdown -- that it was hard to imagin stanford be 1-3 and lurk in the pacif 10 confer cellar after humbl loss to washington , arizona and notr dame less than two month ago . 
 the hardest etiquett lesson , for those who have learn all the rest , is that target individu -- other than one 's own minor children -- for unsolicit advic is one of the major rude . 
 near 40 percent of them watch the movi , but the demi moore-patrick swayz weeper made so much money in theater that it 's hard to believ there were peopl who miss it there . 
 i would n't dream of tri to call one forth with a ouija board -- they appar can be quit hard to get rid of . 
 `` it 's hard with a guy like him when he 's ahead in the count all of the time. '' 
 `` it will be realli hard to tell my kid i 'm not go to work tomorrow. '' 
 anoth problem , produc say , is the percept that venison is tough , gami and hard to cook . 
 said bunc : `` it was hard to dislik jim . 
 the nobl lord , lord strang , has done splendid work - and i glad add my tribut to those paid by other - as chairman for so long of the nation park commiss ; and he has had a hard row to hoe . 
 `` the longer you put it off , the harder it get . 
 `` suit of old russian danc '' that open that inaugur program with the slow and modest entranc of the maiden and built steadili into typic moiseyev vigor and warmth ; the amus `` yurochka '' , in which a hard-to-pleas young man is given his come-upp ; the love ( and of cours vigor ) `` polyanka '' or `` the meadow '' ; the three moldavian danc entitl `` zhok '' ; the sweet and funni littl danc about potato plant call `` bul'ba '' ; and the hilari pictur of social life in an earlier day call `` citi quadrill '' are all just as good as one rememb them to have been , and they are welcom back . 
 judg from a stroll through clubsport of fremont , it 's hard to think member sacrific anyth . 
 i also find it hard to shrug off the pirat elect scenario for two reason : ( 1 ) circumstanti evid , and ( 2 ) the bizarr cast of charact . 
 the hard part for her was do all the thing necessari to get in front of that goal -- such as stay in school or in shape or on the team . 
 `` foothil 's offens was n't easi , but it was n't hard . 
 it 's hard enough convinc a drug and alcohol abus teen-ag to seek help , but most program make it more difficult by expect them to go for treatment after school or weekend . 
 the chestnut blight that kill million of tree back east has not migrat to the west coast but becaus they have a hard time grow here we do n't see too mani of them . 
 newark school truste alreadi know what they want to keep in their budget for next fall , so now come the hard part : what will they elimin ? 
 lendl blew lead of 2-0 and 5-3 in the third set and complain to offici that `` it 's hard to play '' becaus of nois from the crowd of approxim 8 , 000 . 
 thrive in america is harder than ever . 
 it will be hard to imagin that river on a warm summer even without cloud of caddi and mayfli , and rise rainbow dimpl the surfac . 
 allen said scrap metal has becom popular with thiev becaus it is hard to trace and machin that chew it up quick destroy ani chanc of identifi the owner . 
 sinc femal give birth to a singl calf onli onc everi two year , it 's not hard to appreci how peril close to extinct the humpback is . 
 but it 's hard to imagin they could squelch the entir open of societi that 's gone on. '' 
 `` i had a hard time understand whi they kept go back , `` kittl said . 
 it would n't be hard to imagin john lennon write a song like `` chocol cake , `` lambast american for their decad tast ( andrew lloyd webber music , tammi fay bakker 's religion , too much rich cake ) . 
 `` it 's hard to defin yourself as an artist , `` jean hanamoto said . 
 `` but it was hard to tell becaus it was like a hurrican in the middl of the field. '' 
 most peopl will have a hard time stay with sunday 's open two hour , which meander around the globe , set up columbus ' time , his motiv and his struggl to get someon to financ his dream of sail west to reach the east . 
 `` it 's hard to categor letter of this natur , but the tone was good , the determin to reach agreement was posit and we re look veri close at the details. '' 
 a pane of glass is n't hard to '' - 
 `` the joke are hard to translat , `` he said , ad through his translat that he 's not eager to begin anoth japanese-american collabor . 
 it is a hard duti but a necessari one -- a divin one . 
 `` the hardest thing was learn the materi . 
 `` if you re also a candid , it complic in some way becaus if you make hard decis , it can hurt your candidaci . 
 great when it count : it alway has been hard to gaug pitcher such as robinson and reuschel on spring-train outing . 
 over time , it get a littl hard to reli on those race-neutr issu ( for explan ) . '' 
 make it hard to sell ticket when mail is deliv two year late , but s.j. stage push on . 
 ask if he believ evan kill that mani peopl , lusk said that after see the child 's bodi , `` it is hard to disbeliev him. '' 
 it 's hard for me to even get into a hospit without medic insurance. '' 
 john le carr , the spi novelist who describ green as `` my guid star , `` said : `` he was a great and magic writer , hard to fit into ani pattern. '' 
 `` the hard part is out of the way now , `` zaner said . 
 onc that is understood , general are harder to make . 
 in the unit state , howev , these ticket are the hottest and hardest to get . 
 we are the parent of five love children , and it is hard enough to encourag abstin without articl like the one about the `` abort kit '' ( live , sept. 11 ) . 
 dunlap said he was not sure which compani or compani were respons for the ftc investig , and when ask if it might have been sunnyvale-bas amd , said , `` it is hard to say. '' 
 for sheer creativ , it 's hard to beat the playroom , from broderbund softwar . 
 lotteri money repres onli 3 cent of everi school dollar , and from the start , offici encourag school to spend that money on one-tim purchas and warn against build the money `` into the budget base '' -- for thing such as salari and benefit -- where it becom hard to extract . 
 if you find that hard to believ , check your mailbox . 
 `` the idea was to help peopl find pet , `` say denzer , whose stylish cut blond hair and perfect lipstick make it hard to imagin her cruis through anim shelter take photo of doom dog and cat . 
 `` it would be hard to be vaguer and mushier than this administr has been in these so-cal commit , `` wyden said . 
 `` the feel of elat is veri hard to describ , `` said bill toon , curat of bird at the san diego wild anim park and a key member of the california condor recoveri team , which includ feder and state offici . 
 ambrosius admit his estim is extrem broad , but said figur are hard to pin down becaus the industri is in it infanc . 
 flight director al pennington said it 's hard to say whether discoveri would have collid with the object . 
 tactic are go to be harder to appli . 
 tommi armour said , after you ve play the hole onc , it 's no longer blind. ' ; `` the easiest thing in the world is to make a hard golf cours . 
 it 's hard to fathom a bunch of clown who 'd hang in with a silli , dead-end idea like post-it note for a decad , right ? 
 the east bay-san francisco ferri are carri as few as 500 passeng a day now , a decreas of about 200 from a year ago , and it is hard to find support in the legislatur for continu state financi aid , said sen. quentin kopp , i-san francisco . 
 bush also would speed feder licens for nuclear power plant and make it harder for state to block nuclear-wast dump site -- both long-sought goal of the moribund nuclear-pow industri . e 
 `` and even if you do have general inform , it 's hard to get it into the stream from this position. '' 
 she said the hardest part is deal with the fact she surviv and wellborn , who was live in frankfurt , germani , did n't . 
 `` it 's been hard at time , but that 's part of the challeng , `` say blank 's daughter , tennesse , 14 . 
 consid the hardest but fastest method ( a few day to a week ) . 
 `` i ll tell you this : the team we had -- the young femal lawyer and the older , ex-con privat eye -- was veri hard to write for . 
 `` but it 's hard to understand whi me . 
 even jan stenerud find it hard to believ the seri of circumst that have led him to the pro footbal hall of fame . 
 `` it 's realli hard to show this stuff in tradit galleri becaus of the equip overhead , `` said abb don , a multimedia artist here who special in interact oral histori . 
 `` i think it 's real hard to sometim turn around and have the same intens the next time around , `` stanford coach tara vanderv said of her team . 
 it was the hardest thing for me to do , not to chase him and give him anoth hug. '' 
 it 's hard to see both of them make it , `` la russa said . 
 `` it was hard for me to leav motown in the sens that it was my record home for mani year , `` he say . 
 `` it 's also hard to see all our work gone. '' 
 sheesh , some dame are hard to figur . 
 `` i grew up the hard way . 
 given this tender father-son scene , it 's hard to think of john mcenro as the bad boy of tenni . 
 the bill would overturn five 1989 u.s. suprem court decis that made it harder for women and member of minor group to win job discrimin lawsuit . 
 the way she figur it , she ca n't lose with her move away from the half-hour nbc antholog seri she found extrem hard to put togeth each week . 
 `` it 's hard to concentr on other thing , but he 's do ok. '' 
 `` it was a veri hard decis , with lot of tear , `` said betti peach-ew , the owner of the center , which oper amid rundown apart on south rengstorff avenu . 
 `` it 's hard to deal with the budget constraint and the war go on at the same time , `` he said . 
 one bright spot : while job are hard to find , start salari have appar not declin , and have even inch up somewhat . 
 it is hard to know who is more pleas . 
 but if the shopper has narrow the choic to window , say , or macintosh , or plain dos , the hard part is over . 
 it is hard for maker to control the potenc and easi for addict to overdos , author said . 
 the reason for the ad delay , said maj. mark rader , a spokesman for the militari postal servic agenc , is `` it 's harder to hit a move target. '' 
 although caver tri not to contamin the cave , `` it 's pretti hard to eat your lunch without drop a small crumb , `` northup said . 
 suggest short cut ; prove hard to travel ; mission santa cruz was found in august 1791 . 
 `` but i ca n't even . . . it 's hard to get the feel back from that game . 
 mayb that 's whi it was so hard to get to him . 
 `` i did n't know it was go to be this hard . 
 and the notion that a perman congress balanc the power of the presid is hard to swallow in the current do-noth and sit-ther state of polit . 
 `` we stay with so mani wonder peopl who did n't speak english it was realli hard to say goodbye. '' 
 but they also make it harder for the car to start tip in the first place -- which as far as consum union was concern was the samurai 's whole problem . 
 it is hard to see a potenti buyer who can afford an accord choos an elantra ; it is just a differ class of car . 
 `` it was the hardest moment of my life . 
 it 's hard to imagin women do this to themselv . 
 they came up the hard way togeth and had been close friend for a generat . 
 `` i ve been tri to make the transit from broadway to becom a record artist , and for a lot of reason it 's been veri hard. '' 
 it would n't be hard to guess that the man who play the laid-back al bundi in `` marri . 
 restor peac ; pranab mukherje , a congress parti elder and it current spokesman , conced : `` we will have to take some hard ( econom ) decis , no doubt , `` particular if it must seek support from tradit oppon . 
 `` this is a hard way to lose , `` ianni said . 
 `` i have a realli hard time with that , `` said shelli kidwel , a felton mother who has volunt as a children 's advoc in santa clara counti for two year . 
 it is harder to say `` merri christma '' when you know that santa clara counti has lost 14 , 000 job in the past year and 1 , 000 from a month ago , when thing were suppos to be pick up . 
 support for bush was hard to find up and down pennsylvania avenu . 
 `` it will be a lot harder , but we have to do it. '' 
 `` it 's everyth from cigarett -- they can be hard to get out here -- to over . 
 `` writer use to tell me it was the hardest show in televis to write for becaus you had to know so much about so much , `` roddenberri told the time . 
 it 's hard to count the number of way in which the person comput has chang the work live of million and the educ of our kid . 
 is hard to understand how he conclud that most snake do not grow appreci after attain matur ; he was work with speci of java , so perhap some tropic snake are unusu in this respect . 
 but she figur that 's kind of hard when mani of them have never left san jose . 
 there is noth terribl sinist go on -- just smart busi , especi in a recess , when custom are harder to come by . 
 `` it 's been one of the hardest thing , `` beckenhauer-hel said . 
 `` it 's been a long , hard fight . 
 grow up is hard enough without be encourag to pursu and accept everi contradictori feel and emot one might have . 
 that 's whi they re wise develop their behind-the-camera skill , perhap prepar for that day when act job may be harder to come by and no longer creativ enough to satisfi them . 
 but it is hard to find instrument craft well enough that they actual sound good and look good , as if someon who truli care about qualiti and craftsmanship made them . 
 `` we have a hard time keep it in the store , `` said tad dawley of the king ' slap shop store in westchest . 
 they found it hard to resist holderman , they said . 
 and it was hard to imagin a prettier teacher . 
 `` when you live in a high-pric area and have to work a lot , it 's hard to find time together. '' 
 `` it was a veri hard thing for him to handl , `` his wife said . 
 resili is amaz , but if it has to hire it labor in the west the struggl will be hard inde '' . 
 a hard team to figur becaus of the coach switch . 
 you find it harder each month to make end meet . 
 it is said that the hardest thing a mother can do is buri one of her children . 
 ( check ) oliv -- though i prefer the deeper flavor of cure oliv , can ripe oliv can be use in so mani dish , it 's hard to keep them off the list . 
 still , when she wander the sidelin at bullet game -- as is her wont -- it is hard to place her as a member of the organ . 
 he fear that public of his name would complic his search , hard enough for a man of 54 . 
 ask how the troubl last year stack up against his previous decad run stanford -- a year that includ a grill befor congress , call for his resign and a litani of other well-public problem -- he deadpan : `` it was a littl harder. '' 
 it 's hard to believ he 's ani wors as a defens outfield than the brave ' lonni smith . 
 it 's hard to put one past her ; she 's heard it all . 
 elsewher , `` it may be hard to think of him in the futur as ever have play someon so good . 
 on the contrari , they complain with almost tedious uniform about the hard work their artist endeavour entail . 
 even amid the laughter as kevin rig up ingeni way to outsmart burglar , i found it hard to abandon into the absurd of the scene . 
 it 's had a hard time grow , too. '' 
 i 'm sorri to say this is all rather hard to follow , and the drama end abrupt with a peculiar sequenc suggest michelangelo did it all to win the respect of his high critic father . 
 that mean that on a day-to-day or even a week-to-week basi , even the peopl in charg of various project have a hard time determin whether they are within budget . 
 `` without object evalu of the fact , it 's hard to expect big benefit from the format of a state commiss to implement and control the cease-fir , `` he said . 
 what 's more , derailleur gear ( outsid the rear wheel hub ) can go out of align under the abus that kid can give a bike , while a simpl one-spe is a lot harder to destroy . 
 but the question is get harder , and the answer goe beyond the esoter world of liver transplant to take in some veri larg issu : how do we alloc health care when scarciti is the realiti ? 
 person attach ; de-junk a home should n't be as hard as brain surgeri . 
 it was a hard , complic move , both in the countri and in the world. '' 
 if attempt to seced from yugoslavia has been difficult for slovenia , which is ethnic homogen , it could be much harder for this ethnic mix republ of 4.5 million . 
 yet it 's hard to dismiss the impact of that depress . 
 `` it 's hard to bond with a babi like that . 
 if lewi doe n't slump , it 's hard to see how the indian could return to fermin , but after all , the manag is john mcnamara . 
 from the outsid , it 's often hard to tell a restaur from a privat home if you ca n't read japanes . 
 a third angri letter writer say my column `` make the goal of a harmoni exist of bicyclist , motorist and pedestrian even harder to achiev . 
 whi yeltsin would agre to share power with a man who has consist tri to intimid and humili him is hard to fathom . 
 `` it 's kind of hard to keep a secret when somebodi from the notr dame alumni associ book 20 , 000 room in new orlean for new year 's . 
 `` i 'd heard it was a veri good school , hard to get into , kind of radic . 
 the judg has said he hope to seat a juri in a few day , but both side acknowledg it will be hard find an imparti panel . 
 `` it 's veri hard to accept , but you need to move on , `` she said . 
 do n't overcrowd pan or it will be too hard to turn over stuf easili . 
 it wash right our with hot water -- which is hard to find here in cuba . 
 the law degre i had struggl so hard to acquir was of no valu becaus it was near imposs for me to work outsid my home . 
 so if two men insist on give up their hard-won deck-chair to two women , it would be ungraci of the women to refus . 
 `` in term of use my feel and my emot life , i realli feel like act is , in a way , harder. '' 
 `` my father knew that life would be hard under the communist in 1975 , `` said thien bui , `` but he was veri patriot and elect to stay , think that he could , in some way , help his country. '' 
 in addit to all the usual difficulti of rais $ 6 million , the festiv draw so much of it support from it wide scatter audienc that it 's extra hard , nicholson said , to seek corpor underwrit , a common sourc for capit fund . 
 so it 's hard to figur whi some peopl would fear them . 
 while the ruler of appl may respect the royalti at ibm , the peasant hate each other -- and it 's hard to see that chang ani time soon . 
 in announc the capit spend cut , crandal said : `` the key to 1992 's profit will be the extent to which the impact of the bankrupt and semi-bankrupt carrier can be moder , and at this point , it 's hard to be optimistic. '' 
 it doe n't help that mani of us grew up see him in contemporari work and find him hard to believ in a period piec . 
 next came the realli hard part : serv a hot main cours and a frozen dessert . 
 even older kid like it becaus it 's hard for them to be recogn in the dark . 
 i find it hard not to sound clich in describ the sight . 
 lap-top comput owner know that they have greater freedom to work on the road or at the beach , but they also quick discov that a seven-pound lap-top seem to weigh 20 by the end of a trip , that most hotel make it difficult to connect the portabl comput to a phone line , that fax modem are treacher thing and that transfer file from the lap-top to a desk-top comput or a network is often harder than it look . 
 the system is set up to keep call parent of truant student until the entir messag play -- just to make it harder for student to intercept the call . 
 of cours , it was hard to look at the big pictur . 
 it 's hard to stay here without famili . 
 `` the comput industri has seen definit sign of slow , `` o'brien said , `` and growth will be even harder to come by in the future. '' 
 kirk west , vice chairman of the commiss and presid of the california chamber of commerc , said the split roll `` would hit disproportion hard in silicon valley , `` argu that the increas tax would make it harder for the valley to keep aerospac and electron industri now be woo by other state . 
 state and feder govern provid a veri limit number of grant for restor of histor properti and they are hard to obtain . 
 besid damag your psych and offend your aesthet sensibl , scar base and edg make a ski slower , harder to turn and less predict . 
 `` statewid , it 's hard to differenti the ( drought 's ) impact from the recess we re in today , `` said frederick cannon , a vice presid and senior economist for bank of america . 
 the memori make it harder to teach adult how to swim than children , expert say . 
 a lot of you express a sens that there 's so much to tackl , it 's hard to know where to start . 
 i know that 's hard to believ becaus i have a veri strong persona , but insid of me i have no idea . 
 nosair had no reason to kill kahan becaus he had come to believ that the radic zionist had soften his hard line on arab and the mideast , kunstler said in his open statement at nosair 's murder trial . 
 but he said , `` my sens is that you re not go to gain back on the easi day what you lost on the hard day -- your bodi doe break down dure the cours of a season. '' 
 hard to turn down ' ; `` if cal move up to sixth , an 8-1 , sixth-rank cal team will be hard to turn down , `` said zatarain , who will attend next saturday 's arizona state-c game and stay in the bay area until the bowl select are announc next sunday . 
 now come the hard part : lose at least nine more pound and hold off foster . 
 it 's a testament to one of the guid principl of disney market , who like to say that the hard part is get the consum to buy that first tape . 
 it may be hard to imagin a substitut that would serv all these purpos so well . 
 `` emot support has been hard to come by , `` she said . 
 i thought the mezz amor -- made with almond and bittersweet chocol -- were too hard and dri . 
 for exampl , it 's hard to imagin king needl a middl eastern potent about his attitud toward women , as walter onc did the late shah of iran . 
 it 's hard to be brave if you do n't know where you are . 
 that 's whi this is so hard to digest. '' 
 this is pretti hard to come by so look for a 1955 chateau beychevell . 
 `` it 's hard to make a good impress in court when you re wear an orang jumpsuit , `` said lawrenc biggam , santa cruz counti 's public defend . 
 if the propos is final , it will make it harder for privat landown to log in area where the owl live . 
 it is hard to imagin that happen in today 's societi . 
 but for immedi , widespread and tangibl impact , the lampf rule would be hard to top . 
 ( check ) it 's hard to believ , but the `` case close '' stamp final has been appli to trump vs. trump . 
 he doe admit though , that after all the long hour of rehabilit and wonder if he would make it back , it 's hard to be in the same spot again . 
 `` it is difficult to say exact how competit the consum credit market is , `` said the report , note that such inform was hard to get . 
 it 's hard to tell , so i had to ask . 
 it 's hard -- but do it . 
 `` if i stay sober , i do n't see the nba as a hard thing to tri and get back into , `` washburn said . 
 it might be hard for some black peopl to tell if this is a slap or not , becaus some black peopl are so use to get slap . 
 ( check ) the writer hint that be `` out of juic '' was wors than be `` out of gas '' becaus it would be harder to haul an extens cord and borrow an electr outlet than to carri a can of gasolin . 
 what we do know is that in the modern age , it 's harder to put inform than freedom back into the bottl . 
 `` it 's veri hard for everyon to understand , `` but in 1941 , `` there were lot of peopl think of suicid . 
 but stripe bass and other fish may suffer for lack of food , although right now it 's hard to distinguish the effect of the clam invas from those of the drought . 
 `` i knew it might be hard to convinc my father becaus he want me to have the money in case there was a ( medic ) emerg , `` chang said . 
 from my perspect here , it is hard to see what all the shout is about . 
 but it 's hard to analyz what a group of incumb might do . 
 the committe said the impact of climat chang on natur would be hard to control , but it was optimist about the abil of u.s. industri and farm to adapt to warm weather . 
 but test lag so far behind that it is hard to link symptom with specif emiss . 
 in the week sinc magic johnson announc he is hiv-posit , it 's been an increas busi place , even though it 's veri hard for some peopl to take this veri simpl test . 
 keep this one in your drawer for the next time the boss give you a hard time . 
 she recommend continu educ cours , develop effect peopl skill and hard work . 
 phrase `` consent of the govern '' need a hard look . 
 he 's a good friend , and hope the hard work he has done on his swing is go to pay dividend for him . 
 `` what we do is realli show the slapstick side that still work with the interpret ( of the play ) , so kid see how much fun shakespear is -- becaus he 's ( often ) associ with hard academ disciplin , `` orlando said . 
 as an antidot to the depend of this ident he routin advoc the classic valu of hard work , individu initi and self-reli -- even as bigotri is continu resist . 
 ( box ) comment : `` ( the game-win singl ) is a compliment to all the hard work , `` moreau coach mike bungarz said . 
 it is therefor on real hard cash that he base his argument that if manchest is readi to pay the top price of , say , 25 s a seat , and fill the theatr , manchest can expect more of the world-fam one - alway provid that her claim do not unhappili conflict with those of la scala , new york 's metropolitan opera , vienna , venic , pari , san francisco , and the rest of the world 's lead opera hous . 
 but hard line are n't hook 's style . 
 it took hoffmann and anoth teacher a year to persuad him to take harder class . 
 i have taken a long , hard look . 
 a minor of dissent say that while wild habitat inde are disappear -- and speci with them -- becaus of human expans , the suppos magnitud and rate of the extinct are unsubstanti by hard evid and probabl have been exagger . 
 a lot of hard-earn money to lose '' , he say today . 
 like this english master , mason realiz his subject in larg , simplifi mass which , though they seem effortless , are in realiti the result of skill design born of hard work and a thorough distil of the natur form that inspir them . 
 that has left their face as hard as the live they come from and their passion as heat as the desert air . 
 we move toward the next centuri more confid than ever that we have the will at home and abroad to do what must be done -- the hard work of freedom . 
 there is no question he came up the hard way , but there has been some question about the accuraci of his version . 
 you have probabl notic that virtual all citi , includ some real armpit , like to boast that they have museum and symphoni , which are of cours the last thing that you realli want at the end of a hard day of travel . 
 no one could have been more courag , more hard-work , more fair-mind , more amiabl . 
 a clearer , harder , tougher nation self-assess . 
 davi said author here had long suspect sjonborg in wild 's slay but lack hard evid until his estrang wife came forward sept. 6 and recant an earlier alibi she had given sjonborg for the day of wild 's death . 
 your self-disciplin , dilig and hard work are exemplari . 
 they look old and dumpi , with stolid , hard face . 
 i do n't know if you would call it luck , or just plain hard work -- it was probabl a combin of both -- but your mother and i put in a lot of hour and end up with a veri success busi . 
 it was hard work , recal john a. breed , a year younger than lester and now a resid of live oak . 
 the hear forc tim stead , 37 , a supervisor at a san jose manufactur plant , to take a hard look at his past treatment of women . 
 she said mr. dali was `` a hard news man '' who had becom dismay by recent trend in journal . 
 if other in silicon valley are encourag and rich reward for hard work and persever , whi should teacher be singl out and condemn ? 
 even with it joyous moment , song such as `` someth to talk about , `` `` good man , good woman '' and the sultri `` slow ride , `` `` luck of the draw '' ask tough question and take a hard look at the never-end balanc between ideal and realiti . 
 but the administr want hard evid the soviet are move to a free market economi , befor more massiv aid is consid . 
 propos the toast of the guest , mr thoma lonsdal , said the cater industri today requir brain , but point out that the capac to absorb technic knowledg differ from the hard realism of routin cater , which demand not onli brain and skill , but common sens and understand of human natur as well as the highest possibl degre of courtesi . 
 to the mix of hard fact , horoscop and advic offer at the end of 900 line , a group of mainlin christian is ad anoth choic : comfort and inspir . 
 wilson need to take a hard look at just how the state is spend it resourc when it come to the poor , elder and disabl . 
 our grandmoth might have describ her as a hard woman , but today she was tri desper to recaptur yesterday 's ingenu . 
 cloud part and hard gash of sunlight swoop down to stain the earth with streak of white and gold light so that the shadow of the run hors flow like dark stream over the dazzl snow . 
 her friend commiser : `` no way to avoid hard work. '' 
 fellow council member prais roger for hard work and dedic . 
 professor in hard-scienc disciplin , such as engin , were found to be more satisfi with their job than their colleagu . 
 of the lime that is alway on hand in the capitol basement for plaster repair was slake sever month for us ; but to make it stiffer , of a realli putty-lik consist to avoid crack , we ad a littl hydrat lime- hard on the hand , but we could see no other disadvantag . 
 i invit anyon with hard inform from kuwait that contradict our preliminari find to get it to us as quick as possibl . 
 evid , when you came up with the solut of own your own home , you forgot to add patienc to hard work . 
 and so you did of me , jane thought , with a sudden , uncharacterist hard percept . 
 the chevi engin stall , mear said , becaus it fail to pick up fuel after mear took it down the hill and made the hard left turn toward the checker flag . 
 `` it 's a forc that 's design to take a hard look at the capabl of potenti oppon around the world. '' 
 `` all that hard work i did in spring train paid off . . . '' 
 he said tuesday there are no hard feel . 
 while not deni his obvious sex appeal , bolton has clear earn his posit of promin , artist and commerci , in the music industri through his tremend talent as a singer and songwrit and mani year of hard work and dedic . 
 yet , with hard work and the abil to live within their mean , they have produc what is seen now . 
 but when she finish his eye were hard . 
 corpor inform system manag need to take a good , hard look at what peopl need and then develop simpl , use applic that deliv up-to-d inform into knowledg worker ' hand . 
 howev , a hard look at the current career path system show that it doe not work . 
 `` so , for the time be , adio , no hard feelings. '' 
 all californian need to take a long , hard look into themselv and stop hide behind fuzzi , `` liber '' notion of freedom . 
 home : a `` rustic '' older home on four acr in woodsid that get a lot of `` hard '' use , he say . 
 these peopl and their backer play no part in the hard work of collect 19 , 000 signatur for recal . 
 brother and sister seem to be a sort of mutual-aid societi , a littl fortress of kind for each other in a hard world . 
 disagr over other matter has kept hard feel from die , she said . 
 in it cover piec , the current peopl magazin take a hard look at the pair , who do n't see each other veri often anymor -- at one point royal watcher figur they had n't been togeth for 39 day . 
 `` pro athlet never know how good they have it until they have to face some kind of hard realiti . 
 yuh 25 , unaccustom to the hard edg of new york humor , found breslin 's remark sexist . 
 school disciplin , hard work and right-from-wrong were of the highest prioriti . 
 iron , she say , just when her consult busi is firm establish and could be run from ani locat , the coupl are take a long , hard look at each one 's career potenti . 
 `` i 'm here to do my job , and that 's it , `` said dickerson , who admit he still has hard feel toward the colt ' manag . 
 but on sunday , after two week of hard think , blondi bumstead enter the workforc as . . . a cater . 
 but industri analyst in japan say ibm face a hard fight in the japanes market , where price competit for notebook comput is fierc and loyalti to japanes brand run deep . 
 even the most radic professor requir hard work and self-reli from their student . 
 further , ani institut that 's got real estat and oil and gas and take a hard look at it this year and doe n't write it down has a veri peculiar portfolio , `` meyer said . 
 best antidot for the bitter and disappoint that poison him was hard work . 
 correct counselor ric hyland , who did hard time for arm robberi 25 year ago , stood shoulder to shoulder with the 31-year-old groom , whose crimin record includ 42 misdemeanor and four feloni convict for drug and alcohol- relat crime and three term in san quentin . 
 demur one moment , hard and decis the next , she caught the dual side of a complex charact . 
 but hard work , he conclud , is n't suffici to recov or creat a win formula . 
 parent perhap fall into three section ; those who were glad to finish formal educ at 14 or earlier , those who obtain a profession qualif `` the hard way '' under the tradit english system , and those who rememb their own univers - and for most this would be oxford , cambridg or a london medic school . 
 attorney for william luca barker were unsuccess in their bid to have their client 's charg dismiss on the ground that there is no hard scientif proof that he has aid . 
 recent at a workshop of tri-valley citizen against a radioact environ , i heard a physicist from the lab comment that the project may well be mothbal after complet becaus the soviet alreadi have much excess capac to produc enrich uranium use other technolog and , given their desper need for hard currenc , they would be will to undersel anyon on the planet . 
 the task forc will take a hard look at the fund , program and academ support sjs must have to enhanc a divis i program . 
 thank to the hard work of dilig research , the classic two-reel comedi of the legendari chick morton and eddi hay , long believ lost , have been discov in a forgotten film vault and tonight they ll begin an unpreced reviv on cbs . 
 we are american : we have a uniqu respons to do the hard work of freedom . 
 his voic grew hard . 
 and offici there have no incent to look hard at effect ; drug program are simpli pay the air forc and navi for the fli and steam they would be do anyway out of their own budget . 
 we learn the hard way , by trial and error , but we learn . 
 so i clung to this shadowi mardonius , simultan a hard , nobl greek soldier and a soft , curling-lip persian tyrant ; beard and clean-shaven ; on both side at onc , a faint ghost-mardonius in the sky ; a potenti , onli half-real . 
 they play all the song from their success album , `` schubert dip , `` with a harder edg than on record . 
 `` more import , it will creat an effort- and performance-bas system which will send a messag to all student that hard work pay dividend , that learn is import , and that tough cours are the path to success , `` cooperman said . 
 the truth is that ani arab who tri to make a stand which is somewhat more moder than the hard line will be kill . 
 no hard feel develop and within month rosenberg follow cooley to seafirst , washington state 's largest bank . 
 the last word ; water smart ; with sever water ration hang over our head , take time for a hard look at your garden to weed out the wimp . 
 now two research psychologist at the univers of california , santa cruz , who just happen to be marri to each other , want to take a hard , scientif look at one of the more interest aspect of amor . 
 over the year , charli 's seen just about everi way a human life can end -- heart attack , stroke , car accid , hang , suffoc , crib death , drown , even a few murder -- and just about everi way the survivor deal with that hard realiti . 
 both pretel and his bride are cover with tattoo , prison imprimatur of hard time serv . 
 amid hard feel over the fail merger , legal squabbl began over disney 's use of henson charact at disney theme park . 
 as lawyer for both side churn out brief , the lot sit dusti and vacant , home to one lanki eucalyptus and a lot of hard feel . 
 a hard eye , she inform moll : `` do n't sure nuff me , offic . 
 it 's veri hard work . 
 almost everyth was render in a hard , fast , ham-fist manner that was about as subtl as a kick in the gut . 
 a hard look at the status of women in the workplac show : ; ( check ) record number of women are enter tradit male profess , such as law , busi and medicin . 
 tom fast , of scott valley , step out of the crowd into a hard embrac . 
 after the first blush of alli uniti , look for a diverg of view between washington and berlin on how to deal with the hard new men in the kremlin . 
 while taylor had remain the lead candid to succeed seidman , bush told report last week after seidman 's resign that he had decid to `` start over and take a hard look. '' 
 `` we were look at a show that was make a real hard turn for the worst , `` said busfield . 
 the mean to creat communiti , from mutual accept to creat an open and respons polit process , a sound educ system , and forum in which communiti member can work through key issu , are all achiev at least to some degre through persist and hard work . 
 `` we are take a hard look in other way we can generat addit revenu , `` she said . 
 my pre-monke sing had a littl harder edg . 
 hunt everywher for way to save money on employe health insur -- are take a hard look at two-incom coupl . 
 `` he said that he thought this was an indic that there was still hard feel toward some segment of the communiti , `` he said . 
 the new honey-hair somer is just as sexi , but she 's now thought , articul and self-assur without the hard edg of the past . 
 besid , they say , the way to win in palo alto is with credibl and hard work , not fanci mailer . 
 as with mani such breakthrough , the research would prefer to talk about the hard scienc and leav the extravag market claim to other . 
 at least ophelia gave her a chanc to go mad , which she say is hard work . 
 the map at right , approv by a major of the committe , was the product of hard work conduct in public by peopl tri to do the right thing . 
 he also prais the effort of his grandfath ( his sister live with other relat after his father walk out on the famili when thoma was 7 ) , who believ that hard work , faith in god and moral valu could overcom ani advers . 
 it 's make you hard , joyc . 
 laugh was hard . 
 equat for success ; his equat is simpl : determin + disciplin + hard work & equal ; success . 
 the mayor chalk up the mcclain controversi to `` misunderstand and hard feelings. '' 
 the book 's goal , he write , is to suggest that `` with studi and hard work , first-tim buyer can often reduc the need for capit , substitut guarante for cash and borrow money even with limit incomes. '' 
 `` just assum there 's go to be hard feelings. '' 
 through hard work and luck , we have been abl to accumul a consider net worth . 
 the turtl also learn a lot about the benefit of dilig and hard work on their way to rock stardom , raphael say . 
 he found himself more and more surpris that ani person could bear to be hard to anoth . 
 `` i believ in logic , reason , hard work , `` he say just befor proctor sink up to his eyelash in quicksand . 
 no offens to okun , who probabl is a good guy and as charm as grover say , but he is a publicist , and this is suppos to be a hard look at the compani he work for . 
 lack hard data , social scientist and poll taker offer an array of educ , often contradictori , guess to explain the widespread support for thoma among women . 
 i 'm sure this provid hour of enjoy for urban profession , who , after a hard day of wrangl sale report , can mosey back to their condominium , rustl up a mess o ' sushi , and spend an old-fashion western-styl even analyz their jean damag . 
 it was onli when addit hard intellig data appear two year later that the pentagon and much of the rest of the state depart were inform of the suspici algerian reactor . 
 some peopl must get their lump the hard way and appar your daughter is one of them . 
 they re convinc the onli reason citi and counti ca n't find enough qualifi asian to hire is that they re not look hard enough . 
 but the state of california want to take a long , hard look at trip-rel health and accid insur to determin if it sale to peopl 65 and older should be subject to greater regul . 
 yet the studi suggest that the lawsuit , legisl , hard work and money spent in the 1970s began to show result in the marin environ dure the 1980s . 
 and there 's no hard evid to suggest how feather were develop . 
 sear announc the action as it board began a two-day meet that was expect to take a hard look at the flag retail busi and search for a way to regain lost custom and profit . 
 but hard econom fact will . 
 he has extol the valu taught him as a youth -- a good educ , hard work and disciplin -- and warn young black never to forget `` the blood of the ( civil right ) marcher , the prayer and hope of our people. '' 
 `` so i sure do n't have ani hard feelings. '' 
 it is critic then , to open a wide debat on the futur of american foreign polici , and that demand a hard look at the bush doctrin as outlin by the presid , secretari of state jame baker and nation secur advis brent scowcroft . 
 sen. christoph dodd , d-conn. , told a senat bank subcommitte that the salomon scandal `` has forc all of us -- regul and the congress -- to take a long , hard look '' at the auction process . 
 i rememb the hard work i had put in , the great hope i held , and the disappoint when i made a mistak . 
 it 's the smaller compani that are take a hard look at the overal secur oper , `` said mark giudici , senior industri analyst for dataquest inc. in san jose . 
 when he die in a plane crash in 1982 , the kid took over the compani and have dedic their hard work to his memori . 
 these chang vari from head to head , so that no hard and fast rule can be made when appli colour , and the result will vari consider , accord to the condit of the hair . 
 `` there 's no hard feel , no bitter , `` he said . 
 even as there are no breakdown , bankruptci , suicid ; in alumni magazin ; so in the page of the old there are no hard complaint , ; noth to share but reminisc ; of everyth not there , or true , ani more . 
 the court found littl hard evid to support a distinct between powder cocain and crack -- hard piec of high purifi cocain that have been prepar for smoke . 
 now -- and onli now -- is it time to take a hard look at the warrior and their coach and general manag , don nelson . 
 he advis them to take a hard look at communiti organ to propos the elimin of those that duplic servic . 
 in the long run , no one doubt that those who have invest four year of hard studi and up to $ 100 , 000 for a colleg degre will get good job eventu -- perhap later this year if the recess eas -- and that they will be spare the grind unemploy and poverti that often face those with limit or no higher educ . 
 for the teen-ag , the project has been more than just hard work . 
 while the strongest intern respons to date has been econom sanction on yugoslavia by the european communiti , earlier this month presid bush said the unit state was `` take a hard look '' at it option to follow suit . 
 `` harder work is need ; but abov all we need more drive and better direct , more effici and economi in our effort . '' 
 his father , who was hard at work at his desk , did n't notic the time pass and it was well past six when he look at the clock . 
 the sky is a hard enamel blue despit the autumn odd , and robin william engag in some dri humor . 
 `` he was abl to handl situat and peopl without caus hard feel or escal the situation. '' 
 he depict the war as part of the `` hard work of freedom '' familiar to american . 
 tammi harmon still rememb her mother hover around her , year ago , when she came home from a hard day 's work and prop her feet up on the couch . 
 i told him , just play like you did in double-a. ' `` ; general manger al rosen said clayton will get `` a hard look '' next spring . 
 if the offic milieu is timeless , whi should n't there be a typewrit ? -- except that scriven is so much a pre-autom profess , hard on the eye , labor-intens and dull beyond compar . 
 craig also is will to take a hard look next spring at rooki pitcher paul mcclellan , who allow the cub just four hit over seven inning saturday , and bryan hickerson , who gave up two run over five inning friday . 
 `` it caus a veri , veri hard look to be taken at our counti 's child welfar system , `` keeley said . 
 she said the `` hard number '' is 11 , 607 . 
 `` start last year and everi year from now on , we ll be look hard at young quarterback , `` offens coordin mike holmgren said . 
 wherea everyth in boccaccio is hard , eleg and general , in chaucer it is mute , peculiar , full of object that are unexpect and yet odd characterist . '' 
 british prime minist john major said the move meant the ec was `` dismantl it tie with yugoslavia , `` and presid bush said the unit state was `` take a hard look '' at it option to follow suit . 
 had bought a littl piec of properti down along the coast of the hard countri of calabria that he knew so well . 
 `` now come the hard work , `` said santa clara counti supervisor rod diridon , who help form the bay vision 2020 commiss 18 month ago . 
 concern about california 's hard recess `` is someth peopl have n't been talk about but probabl should , `` said jame murren , casino stock analyst at c.j. lawrenc inc. in new york . 
 the plotter of the coup were men of the hard right , who want to prevent chang . 
 `` we ought to take a good , hard look at the increas we ve given to teacher . 
 nadin prais dorosin for her hard work , and the strong tie she forg between busi and the chamber . 
 here , we are build a viabl , success immigr communiti through hard work , i hope , without forfeit our identity. '' 
 her mother said in scandal tone that money was n't everyth and thought how hard her daughter had becom . 
 such hard and fast divis of human were to come later . 
 `` what , you got ta becom a hard guy when you come to jail ? `` the offic retort . 
 in the interview , donaldson call on the feder govern to take `` a good hard look '' at whether it encourag of competit among differ secur market had place the industri on `` a veri slipperi slope '' toward a fragment market that would be difficult to monitor and control . 
 through quiet determin and hard work , she rose through the rank of fidel invest , the giant mutual fund compani , becom a respect portfolio manag of `` junk '' bond . 
 `` he has been liken to ronald reagan , a populist with no real interest in the detail of govern and hard intellectu work , `` sonnenfeldt said . 
 `` sometim you have a hard head and you play anyway , you break the glass , then you have to suffer the consequ . 
 there could be some hard feel in this one -- it 's the first time the two team have met sinc calgari defenseman jami macoun broke buffalo star pat lafontain 's jaw with a high stick nov. 16 . 
 `` it 's a hard , rough ride but it 's got a lot of power and it 's amaz how much the aircraft can take . 
 for year , ad maker need a bright idea , hard work and a littl luck to walk away from the clio award show with a golden statuett . 
 jone also say that keep actor in the fold often lead to hard feel among the competitor , which is whi erlendson is care to hush up when the competit is mention . 
 they ve got to take a long , hard look at us now. '' 
 both the hous and senat had vote separ to lift the counsel ban , put them on a collis cours with bush , who throughout his presid has taken a hard line on abort . 
 `` we re go to take a hard look at our oper , look at way to improv our cash flow , way to lower expens at level across the board and continu to make signific reduct in the work forc , `` harrison said . 
 the one leadership qualiti palumbi lack , he acquir through a hard lesson dure his first three year at stanford . 
 i humbl suggest , madam mayor , that you take a hard look at your prioriti . 
 i 'm almost alway amaz at the amount of hard work , time , energi and money that peopl will invest in their restaur when success has veri littl to do with such mundan thing as qualiti of food . 
 music chair -- lawrenc bryan is take leav as artist director of the san jose chamber music societi next year , but there are no hard feel involv . 
 they re use to disciplin , hard work and surmount crummi odd . 
 if i get a littl hard on myself becaus i 'm not do someth right , i remind myself that i 'm there to have fun. '' 
 when `` his '' war did not bring victori and booti , a new group of lord might oust the unsuccess leader , and the common , who usual suppli the hard cash , might be bold enough to demand the product of account , and even at time the impeach of the unsuccess . 
 estonian see no hope but foreign pressur for chang gorbachev 's hard line against baltic independ . 
 `` this is a testimoni to their cooper , hard work and desir to demonstr their concern for our environ and the health and safeti of our community. '' 
 the most interest section of `` the next centuri '' has to do with the career of kazuko inamori , who through hard work and attent to detail built the spectacular success japanes compani call kyocera ( kyoto ceram ) . 
 ford motor co. took a long , hard look at acquir chrysler corp. last winter after ford 's former chairman , donald petersen , carri word that chrysler would welcom such a move . 
 the other compani `` expect altus to do the hard work , `` garamendi said . 
 `` it 's been especi hard on jewish children . 
 i 'm so hard on myself that even though i 'd get good respons , though i ve been veri lucki , i ve alway wonder . 
 ( check ) employ histori are also get a harder look . 
 the bbc-made seri take a hard and most uncensor look at the busi of movie-mak . 
 but the hard truth is that no one realli know how to increas household save , and ira do n't seem well-equip for the job . 
 said martin s. askana , co-own of unit flower and a vendor sinc 1986 : `` we ve invest in these site for a long time and now someon els will come and capit on our hard work. '' 
 but egypt , the onli arab countri to have made peac with israel , took a hard line . 
 call for more resourc to help children and urg a long , hard look at how children 's welfar servic are provid so the system can be overhaul , if necessari , patton said : ; `` this should n't happen in our societi , and it wo n't happen if we do it right. '' 
 fruiti red take well to chill ( if they are n't tannic , in which case chill can make them hard or bitter ) . 
 both stress hard work . 
 for one thing , radiat hose are veri hard on your teeth . 
 they were better live than on record , becaus guitarist mick jone gave the song a harder edg . 
 in a decemb 1984 `` straight talk '' memo that made him a soulmat of former assist secretari of state elliott abram , both as to truth and their approach to the third world , gate advoc `` hard measur '' ( air strike ) vs. `` half measur '' ( the contra ) to destroy the nicaraguan militari , which they view as a threat to american influenc in the western hemispher . 
 they do n't realiz the hard work that is done for their benefit . 
 hop kiln napa gamay had a charact similar to the swan and duxoup wine , but was richer and harder and need lot of time to develop finess . 
 her own talent , hard work and sens of vocat spur her , but two remark poetri workshop , one with john holm , the other with robert lowel , provid the atmospher she need as an apprentic to learn and flourish . 
 about $ 1 billion of the valu came from `` hard '' asset ( factori , offic , paper clip , person comput , chees ) . 
 the group had accus him of `` dog them , `` exchang hard look with other member . 
 miracul progress in materi achiev flow from other qualiti far more worthi and substanti : adher to principl and method conson with our religi philosophi ; a satisfact in hard work ; the readi to sacrific for worthwhil caus ; the courag to meet everi challeng ; the intellectu honesti and capac to recogn the true path of her own best interest . 
 about a dozen low-incom famili chosen by the luck of the draw saturday will get a chanc to substitut a year of hard work for a down payment on hous to be built in morgan hill by the hous author of santa clara counti . 
 ann scitovski , chief of the health econom divis at the research institut of the palo alto medic foundat , said helling 's estim on the cost of treat hiv `` make sens to me , but it 's not base on as hard data as the aid estimate. '' 
 but becaus i thought of her as hard and egotist , i could not believ that she stay with him simpli from affect . 
 is a good man , hard work . 
 would sometim even get a littl hard on you , she took you so serious . 
 i ask becaus i know this will happen in the famili again , and although it may be hard to believ , there were some hard feel about the `` disposition. '' 
 fix them is hard work , but is a possibl project for the ambiti remodel . 
 no hard feel ; jame `` buddi '' ryan sr. is gone from the philadelphia eagl scene , but junior 's still around . 
 `` i 'm glad that my hard work can pay off for other peopl , and i have fun too , `` she said . 
 `` you see a more temper , citizen-ori approach by candid , wherea 10 year ago you may have seen a harder line . 
 analyst believ some american comput compani will take a long , hard look at get into the display manufactur busi . 
 counsel now show me that i am a co-depend , but that with hard work i can pick myself up and becom healthi again . 
 but it is worth the hard work of make these decis in order to allow student who find differ tradit a meaning way to show pride in their heritag as well as in their status as member of the class . 
 actual , that 's when the hard work begin . 
 but last week , that litani of hard feel flow not from arab ' lip , but from isra ' . 
 as salvag oper are often attend by consider hard work and great risk , the oblig to pay compens is so obvious base on the principl of justic that payment has been allow at all time by everi civil countri . 
 ( when the whore are haul off to prison , strip of wig and makeup in the hard light of day , they look like that ragtag group of washington hooker march across a potomac river bridg by the d.c. polic a coupl of year ago. ) 
 just a matter of eas up after 20 year of hard work . 
 yet with rare except ( philip morri is one , incident ) , manag still spend most of their time manag what they can touch -- the rough 10 percent of asset that are `` hard. '' 
 i think we should respect the hard work the committe has done . 
 commit and hard work are the cornerston of children 's theater , not just for fread , but for the children as well . 
 i would go into the read room , where solid silenc was pack hard and green up as far as the bowl of the dome , and walk over , alway , to desk d-4 . 
 `` i had the veri hard impress ( the present ) was slant , `` said ted terraza , who attend a present at meyer school . 
 ( box ) there are no hard rule when it come to the marriag of electr and horticultur . 
 a call for reform ; but hard work doe n't alway mean pay , say activist . 
 `` kid are not read enough ; they re not take hard enough cours . 
 sen. ernest f. holl , d-s.c. , chairman of the senat commerc committe , has put the feder communic commiss on notic that he expect the fcc to take a hard look at ani request for a waiver to the govern 's `` cross-ownership '' rule . 
 the boy tri to make the age-chang voic sound hard , and it might have sound ludicr had it not been for the reckless chill shimmer in cat-yellow eye . 
 the lesson of that book -- that hard work and loyalti and love will endur in tri circumst -- are relat new concept to children just begin to read . 
 but tyrrel acknowledg , `` the troubl with do all this hard research is you kind of get back to what granni use to say. '' 
 ( check ) congress should halt new grant to the intern monetari fund and world bank , and demand a hard balanc sheet from each , with loan written to market valu . 
 i think it is a commit to hard work , an avers to shortcut , a skeptic about utopia , an open mind , a profound human . 
 presid bush , respond to initi report of shamir 's accept , said befor leav kiev that `` this is bound to be good news for peac in the middl east , and i 'm veri veri pleas that the hard work of mani parti , especi our secretari of state , look like it may be come to fruition. '' 
 the name are list on invit and distribut by baymec -- hard proof of polit support that not long ago was ephemer , whisper or given with wink and nod . 
 for play the lead part of two c.o. 's of a highland regiment are alec guin and john mill , the one have won the affect of his men by lead them through the war , and the other a hard , effici newcom who is heartili dislik by the major of the soldier . 
 perhap i should n't be too hard on myself . 
 `` in our view , there need to be a hard look at how we fund higher educ in california , `` hamlett said . 
 i am repel by the lack of hard answer to these question . 
 to my knowledg , there 's no hard and fast rule about how mani mint you should take upon leav a restaur . 
 lender are take a harder look at borrow befor approv home-equ loan or credit line . 
 `` those hard , activ word are seldom associ with females. '' 
 the naacp has alway encourag hard work . 
 even the short-cruis ship are take a hard look at their itineraries. ncl , for exampl , has just chang the rout of it sunward ii , make key west a port of call on it three-day trip , instead of nassau . 
 mauriello was then direct by supervisor to take a long , hard look at the servic and suppli estim her staff made for each counti depart . 
 not like previous fraud ; in fact , even govern critic like polit pollster miguel basanez say they do n't expect the pri to wage the `` hard fraud '' of elect past . 
 `` patienc and a lot of hard work , '' she said last night . 
 the volcan dust that 's been deposit around is veri hard on jet engines. '' 
 he believ in hard work but got his first newspap simpli by ask his father for it . 
 aborigin is not deceiv ; he know that the land is hard and pitiless . 
 with hard work , it succeed , and henri ribb soon becam a promin east side citizen . 
 the oak grove school district learn the hard way that you ca n't count on san jose for good citi plan when power develop take their case to the citi council . 
 thompson bent a hard look at the lawyer . 
 he did n't want player to say thing like that , becaus the team can start to draw rank . . . and it get the media dredg up hard feel that have noth to do with win or losing. '' 
 this countri need to take a hard look at how it doe busi and who should be allow to succeed in the marketplac , not what the feder govern can do to cover up the failur of a few compani . 
 it gave me pleasur to say hard thing '' , he wrote , `` i would shut up forev '' . 
 while roddick 's hard edg can be off-put , her principl are endear . 
 he spoke aloud of his opinion of nbc news as `` a dinosaur , `` an organ whose member seem to believ themselv part of some priesthood immun to the hard imper of profit and loss . 
 keith hearn of the california associ of psychiatr technician commend davi for `` take a hard line against unilater cut . 
 it was easi to take it as a period piec , and appar there were no hard feel all around . 
 sure , that can lead to a few argument and hard feel . 
 the evid support the major conclus of `` eat smart '' is hard and plenti , the guidanc it offer import and valuable. ( box ) 
 never again ; speak of feud or tempera clash , how about the recent hard feel express by art garfunkel about not be invit to perform at simon 's central park concert ? 
 joan beck is right on target when she say that hard work and fact are need to shatter the glass ceil women experi in corpor ( commentari , aug. 14 ) . 
 freelen would n't reveal the list of candid but said , `` we ve taken a hard look at 12 to 14 people. '' 
 take a hard look at your own arm or home-equ line of credit . 
 she say hammer should n't have been surpris that the counti took a hard line on the bond . 
 gave a short hard laugh and look at her know . 
 in term of hard cash , this is calcul to bring in *+20 to *+25 more profit from everi hundr bacon sold , without take into consider the streamlin of labour and the simplif of mix and storag . 
 the cut in the short-term prime business-loan rate by major bank put new light on a key develop under way in the nation mortgag market : the price spread between long-term fix and short-term adjustable-r mortgag has widen to the point where smart money-shopp should take a hard look at adjust . 
 `` but tri to put it into hard point , and number of victori , that 's realli tough . # # # 
 `` the next day , i walk in and talk to coach seifert , and there were no hard feelings. '' 
 `` all the window that i broke as a kid , all the thing that i broke and she had to pay for , she was never a hard mom . 
 `` this is one of those instanc where merit and hard work have paid off , `` said judg gordon baranco , one of armstrong 's colleagu on the alameda counti superior court . 
 we becom firm enough to stand for those ideal which we know to be right , when we becom hard enough to refus to aid nation which do not permit self-determin , when we becom strong enough to resist ani more drift toward social in our own nation , when we recogn that our enemi is communism not war , and when we realiz that concess to communist do not insur peac or freedom , then , and onli then will we no longer be `` soft '' . 
 `` the citi allow offic to be overwork so much they becam hard and cold , `` pugh said in an interview last week . 
 but what doe he get for his hard work ? 
 for mani turnpik , has come hard . 
 yesterday they were back their fanci with hard cash , and share enjoy their best day for a long time . 
 nankin said the board has been take a hard look at the symphoni 's budget , but has made no decis on what to do if the deficit remain larg . 
 after two year of hard work , denic decid to call it quit . 
 the public appear readi to believ that mani institut achiev their athlet goal not through honest effort , but through equivoc , not by hard work and sacrific , but by hook and crook. '' 
 the first women sleuth were so hard that v.i . 
 among defens back , todd bowl , david whitmor , greg cox and kevin lewi will get hard look . 
 that miracl happen to him at maryland state prison , where he was serv hard time for assault a guard , which follow his convict on weapons-possess charg , which follow his earlier manslaught convict for kill a man in a knife fight . 
 neither industri nor the highway administr has hard figur to indic those commut are grow in length . 
 that was 12 year , a lot of hard work and $ 350 , 000 ago . 
 there are no hard feel , `` malon ad . 
 the 32-year-old profession dog handler know that the secret to produc champion is just plain , doggon hard work . 
 it 's a day well spent becaus insur compani like to have the cold , hard fact when you re face with a loss . 
 `` i ca n't give you hard data , `` say loden , `` but if you look at who 's move ahead insid the fortun 500 compani , it 's clear that women are do better than minor , and that white women are do better overal than women of color. '' 
 the video is basic for those of us who find other exercis tape a bit too demand , owe to a general lazi , weak of charact and fear of hard work on our part . 
 and you thought the hard work was behind you . 
 resid there can look forward to some hard work with good social dividend . 
 the hard work pay off though , eylar said . 
 and for anybodi who doe n't mind a littl hard work . 
 sammi hope all the adult learner stick with the program despit the hard work . 
 then again , mayb i have to take a long , hard look at some of the other fragranc on the market . 
 weekend fight between rebel and govern forc in colombia kill 31 peopl , and a newspap report sunday that colombia 's leftist insurg had adopt a new hard line . 
 it doe n't take talent or brain or hard work . 
 i hope that somebodi has taken a long , hard look at what it could cost in properti damag , injuri and possibl death when kid receiv less train than they do today . 
 but this astonish of mine was much increas , when some day after , a storm came upon us , and the captain rush out of the cabin in his nightcap , and noth els but his shirt on ; and leap up on the poop , began to jump up and down , and curs and swear , and call the men aloft all manner of hard name , just like a common loafer in the street . 
 `` all our hard work -- gone ! `` we cri , beat our breast and knuckl our forehead . 
 the young man was a teammat tri to give her a hard time , and the team manag was n't do much to stop it . 
 for two centuri , we ve done the hard work of freedom . 
 but if your broker is regular chang venu , you ought to take a hard look at whether the fast money mean everyth to that person -- and whether he or she is get ahead by generat lot of commiss to earn the titl of `` big produc , `` at your expens . 
 the countri will onli get it money 's worth when it goe through the hard work of set prioriti . 
 bill mccann , general manag of the water district , said , `` if the council were to decid to ask our board to do it ( elimin restrict ) , i 'm sure the board would take a hard look at it. '' 
 hard core of the pro-communist rebel forc number onli some 2,000 tough viet minh guerrilla fighter . 
 but the lender ( who foreclos ) has the respons of sell properti and get the money in a hard market , `` swinson said . 
 `` she was a veri hard , tough woman . 
 but he refus to predict whether he would be abl to cobbl togeth a govern coalit and said he expect three week of hard bargain with all the non-socialist parti . 
 `` it 's hard on you physic . 
 the fourth- , fifth- and sixth-grad at sakamoto elementari school in the oak grove school district in south san jose want hard answer to some tough question from hammer dure her quick stop there as part of a whirlwind tour of district 10 . 
 itali 's decis to adopt a hard line with it third wave of albanian boat peopl appear to be work . 
 golden is look for peopl will to do hard work , and we re have him send you an applic . 
 talk to report in kennebunkport , main , where presid bush is vacat , white hous spokesman marlin fitzwat said : `` the fact is , we do n't have hard inform . 
 unless some hard evid has turn up that free trade in 1992 would have devast effect , we think the delay is unwarr . 
 the author , a former industri film maker , has the knack of weav in hard inform about video product without make you feel corner by a self-absorb film major . 
 syria , israel 's most implac foe , hew to it tradit hard line . 
 the standard , of cours , is veri differ from the hard , expens glitter of west germani . 
 `` i guess we ll find out the hard way ( if circul doe not increas ) . '' 
 it 's a wonder mysteri , which has produc mani theori , but no hard answer . 
 of us would be will to admit that forgiv come hard . 
 english professor herbert lindenberg fear that human depart would suffer the brunt of the budget cut becaus , unlik the hard scienc , they bring in few overhead dollar . 
 one of the chief complaint was that the floodlight from the ceil was too bright , it glare hard on the eye of council member . 
 foreign airlin also are begin to take a hard look at their coach class . 
 to play the hand it has dealt itself , the compani and the uaw assert that they have pull togeth all the hard lesson learn from the japanes , the consult and other about design , engin , technolog , manufactur , labor-manag relat and `` work smart. '' 
 here are these men and women so commit to kid they are will to take on a second job for peanut and give up their free time after a hard day on the regular job and they get a kick in the teeth for it . 
 `` but sometim it is hard work . 
 ed southerland is vice presid of robert half co. of washington , a compani that find job for financi and account peopl , and he defend the stern personnel polici that generat much of his clientel : ; `` somebodi 's got to take a cold , hard look at the number and move on . 
 no one , in fact , defend the content of the seri , and sever speaker from the audienc chide the board for not be hard enough on the textbook . 
 all of this is go to requir some hard work and some imagin , but for the most part i suspect we ll enjoy the process , as well as the final result . 
 i want to thank council member alan loisel and gari mello for their hard work on the fremont citi council . 
 week loss is part counterbalanc by 500 arriv each week from west germani , but the hard truth , say crossman , is that `` the close off of east berlin without interfer from the west and with the use onli of east german , as distinct from russian , troop was a major communist victori , which dealt west berlin a dead , possibl a fatal , blow . 
 he appear to be a solid citizen who has turn himself into an excel defens player through hard work . 
 he said democrat are play `` straight polit , hard ball , `` by show no willing to find middl ground on the matter . 
 she and pete were realli get serious , i 'd have to do some hard think . 
 befor you commit yourself to a career , you need to take a hard look at salari , advanc opportun and the market environ of field you might choos . 
 it is tempt to believ , as so mani american do , that state legislatur live by ronald reagan 's maxim : `` i know that hard work never kill anyon , but i figur whi take the chanc ? '' 
 but despit the hard work he put into his compani , famili member say his first love was fish , an activ he enjoy best on the sacramento-san joaquin river delta . 
 there are few hard explan for the wide dispar between men and women . 
 sayl , never the sunniest of chronicl , here take a long , hard look at the inner citi . 
 but , in american labor polit , he identifi with what he imagin to be `` the hard-lin rank-and-fil parti '' -- unlik support for a compact among labor , busi and govern . 
 but howi work me in after a lot of hard think . 
 `` and it all happen becaus of hard work . 
 etc. : the new york giant and mark bavaro have agre on a financi settlement that end hard feel between the club and the former all-pro tight end , who was waiv becaus of knee injuri . 
 smile at winston , and he saw the hate hard glitter in her eye . 
 whichev team doe n't has a long , hard road . 
 the work is alreadi hard . 
 the san jose museum of art auxiliari 's recent debut fashion show luncheon will be a hard act to follow . 
 and if california doe n't soften it hard line on mount busi regul , other say , the inland empir will never attract the strong manufactur base need to keep growth intact . 
 old gal stare at me with her hard eye , said , `` she did n't call . 
 it can be done , but it need goodwil and hard work . 
 the current recess is caus mani chief execut to take a harder look at technolog spend . 
 after four year of hard work , i was wait for this for a long time . 
 while bush gave iran a pat on the back , his spokesman struck a harder tone . 
 `` the hard work is ahead , and that is take advantag of this . . . tragedi and turn it to produc increas stabil and secur in the middl east , `` scowcroft said on abc-tv 's `` this week with david brinkley. '' 
 `` it was hard work six day a week , but it was a great experi and open door for me , `` said the modest , soft-spoken lam . 
 the hard work has includ caulk the crack in the hous , scrape off old paint and replac crack board . 
 at the end of his hard , long and especi good day , piniella paid a visit to the red ' administr offic , where he quick was stop by an autograph-seek secretari . 
 cheney repeat refus to say that he had achiev hard and fast agreement with ani of the six countri he visit , nor would he reveal ani detail of his talk . 
 the new nintendo `` is go to be a harder sell than peopl origin anticip , `` he said . 
 the wine have six or seven month in bottl to settl down and gain some harmoni ; they were a bit hard when they first arriv last spring . 
 the hard work and care is evid , by both the care prepar meal and the friend atmospher . 
 after all , he said , there 's hard work involv -- everi volunt will be expect to attend week meet for six month . 
 much of what i learn was no surpris -- the hard work , dedic and enthusiasm of the teach staff was pretti inspir stuff to me , the jade busi execut . 
 year of hard work and save often get lost in the process . 
 that mean take a long , hard look at your spend to see what can be cut . 
 he was sidetrack by his first real love , fanci car , and after year of hard work found himself the owner of a chain of bay area auto bodi shop that special in bmws and merced . 
 write 's hard work , all right , but it doe n't take up a lot of canin 's day . 
 are conscienti , hard work , honest , accur , a good penman , and a stickler for a job well done , with no loos end . 
 i admit that i may be a littl hard on quayl , but should n't we , as a nation , expect more from our vice presid ? 
 we just ca n't let hard work and drive creat favor environ for those will to make the effort as oppos to those unwil to do so . 
 ( check ) those who had mentor most frequent cite dedic , hard work , intellig and enthusiasm as the characterist that led to mentor choos them . 
 the next day , flaherti learn the hard number : mineta owe $ 5 , 027 to the congression dine room . 
 the report urg lawmak to take a hard look at the tax break `` whose rational and object are no longer valid or of low priority. '' 
 henc the agreement last week , after two-day 's hard bargain among the communiti 's foreign minist , to delet ani mention of a `` feder goal '' in the draft treati be prepar for maastricht in favor of a refer to `` an ever closer union of the state and an administr as close as possibl to it citizens. '' 
 all black peopl are beneficiari of special race-bas assist ; no black succeed becaus of famili , teacher , intellig , hard work or good charact . 
 affirm action is there to help peopl who , despit hard work and drive , might not be hire , promot or admit into prestigi univers becaus of their gender or race . 
 presid bush tri to patch up an embarrass split with his desert storm command thursday by telephon gen. h. norman schwarzkopf to reassur him that there are no hard feel . 
 in these area , they say , a littl hard work can truli pay off when it come time to sell . 
 valdiosera 's stori can be view as the affirm of the american dream : regardless of your origin , you can overcom the most difficult obstacl to get what you want through hard work and determin . 
 match the appropri card with the monitor ( most dealer can get this basic step right ) and , abov all , take a long , hard look at the screen . 
 there are still no hard answer to the question of what drove lewiston , a nation known innov of lung transplant techniqu , to such a complic emot life . 
 her sloppi phrase was the aural equival of a drunk bump into light pole and garbag can after a hard night on the town . 
 fed up by that , the player union has hire a new front man , bob goodenow , whose negoti team is take a harder line against the owner than ever befor . 
 today , the gate sound somewhat date , lack the emot forc of the `` hard '' gospel singer , but they show a side of gospel that is often overlook -- it consumm technic expertis and profession . 
 `` there are no hard feel , `` humphrey said . 
 it is the road that might reward hard work and disciplin , that might reward intellig , that might be fair and provid equal opportun . 
 that 's the hard truth citi council member present when they pass a $ 66 million general fund budget for fiscal 1992 that will trim program and servic to make up a $ 2.5 million shortfal . 
 the mercuri news publish a glitzi cover stori to highlight it home section , admit not a portion devot to hard news . 
 `` at first the guy on the other team realli give me a hard time , `` she said . 
 `` he also has great strength that he 's develop through hard work. '' 
 in a 1960s survey , near 60 percent of american believ `` hard work alway pay off. '' 
 fleer : the player are suppos to `` leap right off '' the card becaus of pastel background that appear to reced insid a hard green border . 
 `` lotteri are move toward harder form of gambl to deflect critic from their stagnant sale , and state are look toward harder form of gambl , envis that they will generat the revenu that lotteri did , `` said michael jone , whose chicago-bas market promot compani special in game . 
 she had an instant 's glimps of grey eye , hard as steel , then his lip were on her . 
 `` after this action , you re go to get hard posit . 
 but bellami 's versatil stem from hard work behind the scene , friend said . 
 rosaldo said some crack dealer possess `` horatio alger valu '' of hard work and self-reli . 
 there was a hard , bitter edg in his voic as he accus feder prosecutor of hound him while ignor wrongdo by white offici . 
 take a hard look at the present success and failur in your yard , especi plant that are suffer from freez damag . 
 they see stori of a young man from a broken famili who rais himself out of abject poverti with the help of stern but love grandpar , who instil in him the valu of hard work . 
 the committe releas a memorandum written by gate in 1984 , when he was director of the cia 's analysi branch , advoc a far harder line against leftist nicaragua than the administr was then pursu . 
 they like the democrat better on the `` soft '' issu ; but until they re convinc the democrat are safe on the `` hard '' issu , they wo n't put them in charg of the execut branch . 
 tone is the weakest part of his equip ; it tend to be hard and colorless . 
 smith receiv prais thursday from school offici , fellow truste and even recal support for his intellig , hard work and dilig . 
 but with help from campbel 's offic and a year of hard work , he tap corpor and privat donor for $ 60 , 000 . 
 but the hard truth is that for a 55-year-old worker worri about his or her job a goodby bonus is an offer he or she usual ca n't refus . 
 today , thank to a lot of industrywid soul search and hard work , it mean someth quit differ . 
 if this is what you are do , you should not be bill your client for hard work , which they can plain see they are not get . 
 `` i want to work veri hard for the next four , five year and be abl around 65 to say to myself , ok , you should slow down . ' 
 not onli do we rememb them for their great accomplish in a hard-work lifetim but we are grate that they hand on their knowledg to other . 
 `` the torkelson ' is a love show , but they re wedg in between two hard , adult comedi , `` he said . 
 she 's also hard at work on an autobiographi . 
 but her hard work and talent earn her the second princess titl -- and an invit from the owner of the step by step danc group in san francisco to join the group . 
 the 1986 was a littl hard and need a few more year of age , but it was the 1987 that stole the show . 
 nbc news presid michael gartner said in a statement issu sunday that the trip was neither `` hard news nor journalist signific , and we disclos through on-air credit that facil and air fare were provid to us. '' 
 lean from the hard work and tan from the long hour in the sun , gallucci laugh as he describ how he and eight other dredger file claim with sp for compens for the nine day they could not work . 
 after appl exceed $ 5 billion in sale , graziano said , `` we took a hard look at our busi and our posit in the industri . 
 `` i am go to take a hard look at each oper segment , and we may have to do adjust in particular area , `` amelio said . 
 `` some make a mystic of this declar , but it is hard common sens ; for the lesson you will learn from me is this : everi kingdom over which we reign must be first form within us on what i as a bicycl look upon as the common parad ground of individu thought. '' 
 author have counterattack with old-fashion hard work , like piec togeth shred evid , and by develop a corp of their own electron expert . 
 the 53-year-old mayor spent near $ 1 million on his re-elect -- most money from busi and downtown interest -- but drop sever percentag point after three month of hard campaign . 
 there is no hard evid that the mercuri in dental fill pose ani health threat despit concern rais last year by a canadian studi and a report on `` 60 minut , `` a government-sponsor panel of expert unanim said wednesday . 
 had a hard voic , too , this time . 
 a duti teacher put his back into his work and is apt to be hard and unbend . 
 hard igneous rock , such as granit , made servic weight , reason impervi to moistur and capabl of withstand hard wear and exposur . 
 he said that `` on this journey we will reaffirm the valu of our ancestor -- hard work , determin , will , thrift , product , persever . 
 not onli is music essenti as a reflect of our cultur , argu teacher david anderson , it also teach student the valu of hard work and cooper , rais self-esteem and often translat into higher grade and test score in subject more common regard as basic skill . 
 pretti hard on him '' . 
 do the hard work of freedom . 
 a good old-fashion breakfast - and realli good breakfast dish are among the most pleas form of food - is appreci by the energet , as a prelud to a day 's walk or climb or fish in the holiday , or as a good basi for a day of hard work ; even on sunday it is someth to sustain you for perus of the newspap , though not the best aid to keep awak dure a long sermon . 
 `` but did he excel by sheer dint of hard work ? `` the time ask . 
 `` do the play befor a sea of veri hard men , i felt this eeri kind of power . 
 i 'm hard on myself . 
 it 's the culmin of a decad of hard work and risk-tak by the 31-year-old west virginia nativ , who has seen six of her song hit no. 1 on the chart , and recent releas her seventh album , `` time pass by. '' 
 here are my note on the wine in the order in which they were tast : ; ( box ) 1988 echezeaux : smoki and tast of brown sugar , pretti and live with hard tannin ; close and young , charm but simpl and quit forward. ( 90 ) there are 94 acr in this appel of which drc own 11 . 
 their loyalti and hard work have great contribut to the success of the compani . 
 what make him differ is his profess ; he 's a big-money ballplay in the public eye and there are number , hard and fast number such as 21 and .201 , that strong suggest he 's bring his problem to work . 
 q : when you were work out your deal at elektra , did you have a hard time persuad the execut to let you do this album ? 
 presid bush prais the ec action and said washington was `` take a hard look '' at whether to impos sanction . 
 no one has hard number to prove it , but languag expert insist that more u.s. compani are reach that conclus . 
 dole urg that the naacp `` should come back to america , where equal opportun and hard work are valu embrac not onli by judg thoma , but by the overwhelm major of american , both white and black. '' 
 he want bad to tell him how sorri he was for the hard , offhand way he had sometim behav to him . 
 `` a belief in the valu of hard work and industri ( is ) the basi for social and econom good , `` the report said . 
 in five year as director of san jose repertori theatr , near has explor provoc topic such as the surviv of love in a hard world ( `` arm and the man , `` `` burn patienc '' and `` a streetcar name desir '' all came from that season ) ; the illus of success ( that was the year of `` all my son , `` `` the rainmak '' and `` orphan '' ) ; and the aftereffect of loneli ( `` fenc , `` `` the caretak , `` `` dracula '' and `` the geographi of luck '' ) . 
 `` our peopl definit thought it was hard work , but everyon agre it was worth it , `` recal sun 's volunt coordin , jennif sim . 
 there were no hard feel between the weed . 
 `` that 's perfect ok , but it 's hard on individu people. '' 
 there were firemen and policemen and ambul , and the eye of the spectat were hard with disast . 
 famili member recal saturday how , with hard work , he was abl to success re-establish his famili . 
 the american peopl are now learn the hard way how difficult it is to act in accord with cool and ration principl when a suppos vital nation interest is threaten by a dictat with a high charg weight of public emot drive him forward . 
 for million of reader his name was synonym with action , intrigu , suspens and mysteri , but green did not think he had talent , just patienc and a penchant for hard work . 
 after the approv , if i rememb the figur right , of some seven propos long-dist rout -lrb- it was six or seven , or someth of that order -rrb- , which meant a great deal of hard work for the commiss and in survey on the spot , even now , more than ten year after this work began , none of these long-dist rout is yet complet open to walker or to horsemen in these beauti area . 
 but for a varieti of reason -- not least among them the liabil and the cost of accid -- sever polic depart have begun to take a harder look at chase , particular for traffic violat . 
 while the baltic republ have been plan their independ move for year and are certain to go ahead , `` with the other , when they take a good hard look at the consequ , it may caus a lot of the republ to reconsider. '' 
 `` listen to me , my man , '' he said grim , as he laid a hard hand on fred 's arm . 
 there is no one more devot , more commit to the hard work of freedom , than everi soldier and sailor , everi marin , airman and coast guardsman -- everi man and woman now serv in the persian gulf . 
 soledad sit on the floor of a dri , flat valley in farm countri , a cluster of off-whit barrack encircl by a high fenc , under a sun as hard as the wind , bright and relentless . 
 shakespear 's famous tragedi took a harder line , of cours , with bodi all over the stage , and now jane smiley present us with a new version , set on an iowa farm in 1979 , that is , in it way , as intellig , compel , complex and heartbreak as his . 
 but he say the rand data may persuad doctor to take anoth hard look at their chiropractor colleagu . 
 but then it was , damn , when are we go to get home ? ' `` ; in cold , hard term -- five game , six week and 11 , 590 mile from now . 
 presid bush ask american on tuesday night to share in the `` hard work of freedom '' by defeat tyranni in the persian gulf and embrac volunteer and individu initi at home . 
 dure this recess and hard econom time , i am grate that i have a steadi job that i enjoy . 
 for all the hard work and all the pain you go through period , it is a magnific profess . 
 havemann suggest that consum who expect to be in their home for onli three to five year take a hard look at discount-r adjust . 
 `` we re take a hard look at ourselv , `` defens end pierc holt said . 
 `` he was essenti an uneduc man , but through hard work and determin , with his wife , they becam landown . 
 but beyond the claim of hard necess , wilson has argu that cut welfar support should be view as a benefici becaus it will encourag work effort . 
 on one level , he is state a hard truth . 
 brother karl was a veri gentl soul , her mother was a quiet woman who said littl but who had hard , probe eye . 
 those onli are worth have which come as the result of hard fight . 
 but , baker said , `` it is the firm hope and desir and wish of my govern , of my presid that we will not let what could be a histor opportun pass for want of a willing to commit ourselv to do the real hard work of peace. '' 
 but american 's student had to take a hard look at their school , which program they would like to keep , which one they can do without . 
 he said he had no hard feel about lose his post . 
 in a speech thursday in baltimor , shamir took a hard line on the negoti with the arab , say isra need to hold onto former arab land to protect itself against surround `` tyranni and dictatorships. '' 
 that includ sprint-boat race ( whatev that is ) , as mike woodger and chris paddon learn the hard way in melbourn , although neither was injur when the 400-horsepow boat hit an embank . 
 `` investor also need to know that this market is more volatil . . . so they should take a hard look at the compani befor invest , `` collin ad . 
 there is no way i 'm wast an hour drive to s.f. , anoth hour search for park , after a confus , furious , intens hard day 's work . 
 `` it 's pretti hard work , `` say walter . 
 but kennedi said he believ the hard feel of the campaign had been set asid . 
 ohio state 's jim jackson , who led the team with 19 point , said : `` it 's realli frustrat to go out this way after as hard as we ve work all year . 
 `` we think it 's a veri major breakthrough , `` schoemehl said , `` but the realli hard work still is in front of us. '' 
 mrs. goulart serv as the bookkeep , and her husband say her hard work and attent to detail help make the store a success . 
 there were no hard feel , though . 
 plan to renew graze leas ; it also will take a hard look at a profit sidelin busi -- the leas of 30 , 000 acr to cattl rancher for graze . 
 sever member of the subcommitte , howev , said the govern should take a long , hard look at the futur of the plane . 
 without ever rare back and let go with the hard stuff , harri open the stake for a start job with a fine perform befor a crowd of 8 , 087 . 
 my companion enjoy a healthi slice of the chocol mouss cake , made with a hard chocol crust , top a spong cake with either strawberri or raspberri on the bottom . 
 `` i feel that the hard court is my best surfac overal , `` courier said . 
 water becom stiff and hard as clear stone . 
 statist canada said that of the hard red spring wheat remain in the storag bin of western farmer , about 47 % was of the top grade , up from 46 % last year . 
 lendl , a three-tim u.s. open champion , lead their seri 13-10 and is 2-1 against edberg on hard court this year . 
 onc thicken , the polenta might be enhanc with salt , pepper , a ground hard chees such as asiago or romano and season with fresh herb , such as chop basil , sage or oregano . 
 `` play at the stick , you get a lot of spike mark that stay in the dirt becaus the ground is so hard . 
 down , whose annual shoulder troubl appar was remedi with surgeri last april , threw progress better this spring but develop an inflam big right toe as his foot rub the hard arizona dirt dure his follow-through . 
 the advent of astroturf mean player are move faster and hit a harder surfac . 
 the crystal make the varnish extrem hard , `` probabl 100 time tougher '' than varnish use on violin for the last 150 year , and explain the mysteri of the old violin ' uniqu sheen , he say . 
 my onli complaint here is that the industrial-strength roll is too hard on the outsid and too thick . 
 one sell at $ 1 ,695 ; the other cost $ 600 more for a `` hard '' disk store 10 ,000 page of data . 
 the 50 paint and 60 work on paper in the show consist larg of geometr reduct of the human form -- all hard line and kaleidoscop construct . 
 snow was hire to bring a harder edg and ideolog spirit to bush 's speech as he move toward the 1992 elect . 
 worker care scrape away 19 inch of hard dirt on top of the vault of dr. carl austin weiss , who die in a hail of bullet along with long in 1935 . 
 the dri period is import : it may take as long as a month for a cut to `` callus off , `` or form a hard , leatheri seal -- but long say when a fresh cut is put in a pot medium without the callus , it usual rot . 
 on the day befor the lockerbi explos , the two libyan flew from libya to malta with a larg , brown , hard-sid samsonit suitcas . 
 the spotlight will be on hard red winter wheat , which is primarili use for export and to make bread . 
 the berkeley-bas compani said it product , which must be refriger , is more like mouss than candi sinc the truffl that have hard chocol shell are high in cream content and low in sugar . 
 the hard , boxi edg have been round for a more aerodynam appear . 
 lump of a veri dark and hard ferrugin sandston , recal a tropic laterit , can also be found with ironstain purbeck slab in the surround arabl field . 
 as reynold prepar to introduc camel nineti nine , a longer-length cigarett in a hard pack ; continu test horizon , a brand that it promot as have improved-aroma smoke , and prepar an imag overhaul for it flagship winston brand , it doe so without public or public relat campaign . 
 if the exist surfac is made of wood , you may not have to instal a hard floor such as ceram tile , stone or vinyl over it . 
 `` it was an ordinari green ford consul with a hard top - like an ordinari saloon . 
 but carlton said the money was in a hard cardboard box when he hand it to the aid for deliveri to noriega . 
 shin and knee guard -- made of hardplast , they are similar to the shin guard worn by catcher in basebal . 
 even though we use cold , filter water in our tea kettl , it has develop a hard , crack gray crust on the bottom dure the few month we ve been here . 
 as the scar tissu grow to form a thick capsul around the implant , it can caus the breast to becom hard and sometim sore . 
 boy will be in dark pant , tri-corn hat and hard-sol shoe . 
 malaysia 's electron industri is between a rock and a hard place . 
 a general rule to keep in mind is that when cook chees it should be done on medium unless it is a hard chees such as grate parmesan or romano . 
 jeffrey edelman , an analyst at drexel burnham lambert inc. , said penney also has done `` a veri good job of place more emphasi on profit soft good , while move out of less profit hard-good categori such as electron and sport good . '' 
 littl boo , with their hard white skin , are not for cook . 
 as the name suggest , a green plantain has a hard bright green skin . 
 rub the swab at the point on the roof of the mouth where the hard surfac becom soft , known as the junction of the hard and soft palat . 
 they said the pasta was too hard . 
 perhap fmc should knock off the tank tread and put on rubber tire , replac the 5 mpg engin with more effici one , replac the hard seat with soft cushion , and mark down the price a wee bit to compet with other luxuri car . 
 not everybodi mind nois as much as i do , but in the wooden mountain hous , all hard surfac , even a small crowd can rattl the window . 
 this box sheet was then extend up the length of the lock in the form of a 2 ft wide trench in order to drain the head of the lock , the trench be fill with hard core over drain . 
 the inton waver again and again in the stravinski `` apollo , `` and the sound textur in the puccini piec turn hard and unyield . 
 but hard-cov alway have had a few refug . 
 onion seed have a hard seed coat . 
 good job have been disappear from this hard-scrabbl river town for year . 
 becker match lendl 's nine ace but won this match with his more dynam net play , dive and roll on the hard court as if frolick on grass . 
 it differ flavor result from it fire in a hard-seasoned-wood , brick oven . 
 in the slow bore of hard board , congress and the presid keep hit bit -- break knot -- the deficit , health care and educ polici , the environ , our rot infrastructur . 
 rag scrubland and manicur lawn had the same bleak blanket of hard gray crust . 
 there was no time for rejoic , but the hard , firm shape of the automat sent a new confid surg through his bodi . 
 she alway has been attract to contradictori impuls , the `` dual natur '' suggest by the exhibit 's titl : hard vs. soft , feminin vs. masculin . 
 he said the blister was caus by drag his foot on a hard mound while pitch in arizona . 
 i ve heard that mani women spritz and spritz until even the split end are hard enough to cut glass . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 most of the time the chang is increment , in the evoc word of max weber , `` a strong and slow bore of hard boards. '' 
 that record-break hard freez ravish tropic and mediterranean plant in bay area garden . 
 the dri period is import : it may take as long as a month for a cut to `` callus off , `` or form a hard , leatheri seal -- but long say when a fresh cut is put in a pot medium without the callus , it usual rot . 
 the play equip , sand and hard surfac for handicap access cost about $ 160 , 000 , said lincoln fong , senior landscap architect for the citi . 
 this time on the hard court of the mint green nation tenni center the match was a fit finish to a day that featur victori by a parad of australian open champion -- edberg , the 1985 and 1987 winner , ivan lendl the 1989 and 1990 winner , and mat wiland the 1983 , 1984 and 1988 winner . 
 these includ cover a cake with a hard glaze of sugar and gelatin or use wood as a temporari frame for float sculptur . 
 when collagen form , women are like to develop a fibrous `` capsul '' around the implant that becom hard and sometim sore . 
 silicon carbid 's problem is that , becaus it 's so hard , it 's also brittl , and thus vulner to impact stress . 
 it blond tint were as fresh and endur as enamel , -- and quit as hard . 
 general , a novic sandblast can remov the old paint , but not without cut into soft grain while leav hard grain virtual untouch . 
 the handset he had been hold clatter against someth hard ; it had been drop or yank loos . 
 intim surfac of the aorta was cover with confluent , yellow-brown , hard , friabl plaqu along it entir cours , and there was a mark narrow of the orific of the larg major viscer arteri . 
 on his own garag door he found that the open revers when it struck the hard block but crush a cardboard box -- a materi that one assum more close repres peopl . 
 but i find that , when sit with my spinal column bent at a 45-degre angl and my knee ram into a hard , knotti slab of oak , my attent span tend to shorten consider . 
 `` i felt noth but my head and shoulder blade press on the hard slab beneath my back . 
 like a chocol easter bunni , rotate mold plastic product have a hard skin but are hollow insid . 
 easter egg to go : peopl who do n't have time to dye their own can now buy hard-boil and pre-color rainbow egg . 
 wednesday : day 4 ; in the morn there were ice patch on the stream , and the ground was frozen hard as we start our eight-mil hike to kibo hut . 
 last winter 's hard frost caus some of the new growth tip to go limp , but they quick recov . 
 most hard chees are higher in satur fat than meat . 
 i have perform a number of oper on these type of ear , and i can assur you that this is extrem hard bone . 
 said trevor wilson , who pitch the giant ' first eight inning : `` mitch is hard as a rock , so i do n't think it bother him any. '' 
 age 1 to 3 : 2 to 3 serv daili ; one serv would be 1/2 to 3/4 cup milk ( for children under 2 year of age , serv onli whole milk , not low-fat or skim milk ) , 1/2 to 3/4 cup yogurt , 1 ounc hard chees , or 1/4 cup cottag chees , pud , ice milk or ice cream . 
 the interior is over chintzi , with hard and uncomfort seat and fabric that feel cheap . 
 i like the low-fat ( no shorten but with nut or chocol ) better than the no-fat , which i found dri and hard . 
 instrument is shown in fig. 1 and consist essenti of a hard , sharp , tungsten carbid knife which is push along the substrat to remov the coat . 
 his game is made for hard court , but the court here are fast , and there are no bad bounc . 
 bumper sought the moratorium becaus his propos to impos a 5 percent royalti on gold , silver and other hard-rock miner mine on feder land has been stall for year in the senat energi and natur resourc committe , which is domin by western . 
 but both chain aggress promot the latest mass-market hard-cov best seller , put them in the front of each store or along the main thoroughfar , the `` power aisl . '' 
 howev , as the fifth hous in that row is the hous of scientist , the occup of which were not amen to evict no matter how worthi the caus , bori piotrovski soon found himself between a rock and a hard place . 
 the skin is cover with hard , bubblelik scale , and mattson is labori construct the boot one stitch at a time , slip the needl of his sew machin care between the scale . 
 some say the implant make their breast hard and sore . 
 in field hockey , in which girl chase a solid , hard-plast ball with wooden stick , the shin pad use meet nation standard and are requir to be worn at all time . 
 as they matur into adulthood , the grasshopp develop a rock-hard exoskeleton and the abil to fli the length of a footbal field . 
 now an atlanta businessman , mr. scherer sever all tie with the compani in 1979 in a disput with some board member , includ mr. fink , on how to run the maker of hard- and soft-shel capsul use to hold drug , vitamin and bath oil . 
 the rain , along with the plenti ogallala aquif that is pump for irrig in this part of nebraska , has left the field of alfalfa , corn and hard red winter wheat in good shape . 
 the soviet union will suppli 1.5 million cubic meter of timber a year , most hard pine , and china will provid coal , salt , electr , oil and other materi , the news servic said . 
 on a hard surfac or wood , the clack of these heel is inappropri in public place . 
 life saver hole , a pellet version of the hard candi , are be withdrawn from store nationwid after four teen-ag swallow or gag on the packag ' plastic top , compani offici said . 
 mr. ohma 's latest book , `` beyond nation border : reflect on japan and the world '' -lrb- dow jones-irwin , 128 page , $ 16.95 -rrb- , abli translat into english by the author and some mckinsey colleagu , sold more than 300 ,000 hard cover copi in japan . 
 my breath , and the veri ground becom as hard as flint . 
 note : cinnamon red hot are small red candi slight harder than jelli bean , avail in the bake section of supermarket . 
 ( box ) sun hong kong restaur , 91 shattuck squar ( i.e. , shattuck avenu at addison ) , berkeley , ( 510 ) 841-2288 , is a bright , hard-surfac , contemporari chines cafe that fill it two small floor of tabl until 2 a.m. by sell a long and interest menu supplement by a separ menu of soup , noodl dish and rice plate at extrem low price . 
 now their view is one of miseri -- hard earth blanket with discard water bottl and human wast , weari children in tatter cloth line up for ration . 
 sometim tap the pot on a hard surfac will loos the cramp plant , but you may have to use a screwdriv to pri it out . 
 the priest bear the holi relic -- the refere carri the puck , a rock-hard piec of black rubber -- drop it in the face-off at center ice , and the contest begin . 
 so hard-cov still have one advantag , after all . 
 in common with mani lock of earli date , no hard floor was provid between the mass concret lock wall , although timber baulk of substanti section were set in the earth floor to act as strut between the base of the wall . 
 you re trap between a net and a pack of larg men , who are wield wooden stick and whack hard littl projectil at your head at 120 mph . 
 one of the most import is to provid a relat hard , stabl surfac on which to place the dine tabl and chair ; the other is to make it possibl to cook the meal close at hand . 
 age 4 and 5 : 2 to 3 serv daili ; one serv would be 3/4 cup milk , 3/4 cup yogurt , 1 1/2 ounc hard chees , or 1/2 cup cottag chees , pud , ice milk or ice cream . 
 k mart said that it hard good busi show improv dure januari with the biggest gain in small applianc , home electron , sport good and automot product . 
 she said , smell pugh becaus peopl let dead fish lie on the beach till the fish got hard as rock ; then they scrape off the mold and made fish soup . 
 flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head . 
 i do n't believ you could argu with the basic messag of either book : that somehow the hard face of american capit need to be soften , femin if you will . 
 if you need a color not avail on prefinish pegboard , paint smooth , unfinish pegboard with a urethan enamel for a hard finish . 
 to his dismay , he soon discov that the pastri were as hard as rock . 
 row of metal grave marker and green spike that serv as temporari marker sit in a 200-acr field of orang dirt as hard as bake adob . 
 best of all is `` whitman : a song for occup , `` which juxtapos loop of soft cloth tape stencil with word such as `` house-build '' and `` glass-blow '' spill from a hard-edg steel wall mount . 
 in the offer announc april 30 , the depart assur the soviet they would n't have to pay more than $ 80 a ton for bread-qual hard red wheat . 
 whi corn pop ; the pressur of that expand steam build up becaus popcorn , unlik sweet corn , has anoth layer of starch , this a hard layer that keep the steam insid the kernel until it can resist the pressur no more. pow ! 
 `` it was autumn then and the ground was get hard becaus the night were cold and leav from the mapl around the stadium blew across the practic field in gust of wind and the girl were begin to put polo coat over their sweater . 
 the first hard-cov print is a healthi 150 ,000 copi , and even an abbrevi cassett version will be avail . 
 blow encount silki hair and hard bone . 
 `` as a matter of fact a good hard frost seem to clear the old tube . 
 with a hard bristl brush , he press the dutch metal onto the rail ornament , care work it into each groov of it acanthusleaf pattern . 
 the may 1990 issu of consum report , in an articl rate bicycl helmet , took a general negat view on hard-shel helmet but the bicycl helmet safeti institut say it believ `` the impact rate are not base on current helmet standard . 
 to tell the truth , i thought marbl was much harder. '' 
 the shelf of hard lava , rest on a pile of loos rock , could snap off and dump them in the ocean . 
 light a feed , particular with metal or other hard materi , caus overh of the tool and burn of the cut edg . 
 ( or put a drop into a glass of cold water period until it instant turn into a hard ball. ) 
 we ve gone from be between a rock and a hard place to be between a dog and a hydrant. ' ; clark redek , alameda counti water district board member , on the water crisi . 
 in his first extend interview with report sinc take over the parti chairmanship , yeutter display littl of the hard edg that character atwat 's brand of polit . 
 both transact are instal in a sale of four million metric ton of bread-qual hard red winter wheat that the soviet agre to buy recent after promis of heavi subsidi under the reagan administr 's export-enhanc program . 
 it should feel heavi and not too hard ; it skin should be thick and without ani discolor patch ; it should smell nice but not too strong . 
 they may be inaccur , the steel may be soft -lrb- or possibl too hard -rrb- so that the edg either crumbl or is brittl , or they may not be robust enough for the work they have to do . 
 after the first time , in 1967 , her breast turn hard within month . 
 becaus of this ambigu , `` the plaintiff are in the proverbi posit of be between a rock and a hard place , '' judg mcdonald said . 
 condominium had been charg a higher rate than single-famili home becaus they usual have more hard surfac and thus produc more runoff . 
 latex expand and contract more ( than oil ) and you can run into crack and allig of the top coat , when you put a hard coat ( oil ) over a soft coat ( latex ) . 
 togeth they had sat throw hard , round pebbl into the dark water , and there was a moon that was not a full moon but was nevertheless the finest moon that joe joe had seen up until then . 
 the san jacinto player , most from the east coast , ca n't help feel like exil in this hard bake patch of suburban houston . 
 wine/food match ; red ; ( box ) chianti : grill or roast beef or veal , pasta with veget , light meat or poultri , hard chees . 
 in a six-block radius , there are lesbian bar with chrome-pl harley-davidson motorcycl park outsid , taco stand alongsid szechwan restaur , mexican voodoo parlor fill with ceram figurin of the devil and bar where cappuccino-sip beatnik share tabl with hard-hat construct worker . 
 all piec to becom leather hard befor construct shaker . 
 down , whose annual shoulder troubl appar was remedi with surgeri last april , threw progress better this spring but develop an inflam big right toe as his foot rub the hard arizona dirt dure his follow-through . 
 the fda defer action on the compani 's request for approv of the sweeten , which has the trade name sunett in the u.s. , as an ingredi in confect includ hard and soft candi . 
 the process produc a hard crystallin mass , silicon carbid , which featur veri strong molecular bond and a close-knit structur , much like a diamond . 
 two month have pass , the first brood of robin and cardin have fledg , and the mound of authent , old-fashion nest materi remain direct on the ground between a rock and a hard place , get more unsteril by the day . 
 most all-purpos flour contain a blend of hard and soft wheat . 
 `` when you travel in your own privat yacht , you can afford to have hard-sid luggag becaus you do n't have to pick it off a convey belt , and it 's handl by your staff. '' 
 although it 's extrem hard and durabl , there is n't much thick for sand . 
 vernal pool occur onli in the springtim and are usual found on hard , claypan surfac , so the water is pool dure the spring runoff . 
 `` it 's veri difficult to sell women 's apparel in a store whose reput is hard good , '' said monro greenstein , an analyst at bear , stearn & co . 
 if i push him too far he 'd give me a look out of narrow eye and the hard cruel boni skull would show through that smooth face of his . 
 it wind street and batter storefront appear more real than the real thing ; if you doubt it , just watch visitor tri to tipto across what they think is a sloshi , muddi main drag , actual just a hard surfac sculpt to look like mud . 
 ms. mcglade say that `` hard good sale should continu to hold up better than apparel , '' thank part to the strength in new-hom sale and relat furnish purchas . 
 mr. clark believ firm that the chew of hard food help develop healthi gum and teeth , raw veget and raw whole-wheat grain are hand out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cooki at snack time in the afternoon . 
 ( box ) harvest squash , pumpkin and decor gourd when the vine are dri and the rind hard . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , ; hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , ; pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 some are pop button out of hard plastic sheet with punch machin that look as if they date from the industri revolut . 
 here are a few suggest : ; ( check ) do n't instal equip over hard surfac such as asphalt or concret . 
 third class is sit on hard wooden bench ; mani passeng bring hammock to hang willy-nilli across the head of fellow travel , who do not seem terribl put out by the inconveni . 
 `` the campaign just doe n't move us , '' say mildr wortham , a 34-year-old mother of two who live in the hard-scrabbl rockwel garden hous project , where one young mother recent die of a cocain overdos and a 13-year-old girl was stab and toss from a seventh-floor window . 
 the rear seat was thin and hard , like a park bench . 
 the larger the tool and the harder the materi , the slower the speed . 
 scherer , which make hard-shel and soft-shel gelatin capsul use to hold drug , vitamin and bath oil , earn $ 15.1 million , or $ 1.38 a share , in the year end march 31 , includ a $ 3.7 million credit from tax-loss carry-forward . 
 forecast that hurrican gilbert will bring rain to the hard red winter wheat plant area of texa , oklahoma , colorado , nebraska and kansa spark sell in wheat . 
 rent-a-car compani founder warren avi found that out when he was promot the hard-cov edit of his guid to entrepreneurship , `` take a chanc to be first . '' 
 instead of suntan and souvenir , the indian brought back piec of hard rock call monterey- band chert , which they made into stone knive and spear tip . 
 at the academi , professor still proud show their communist parti card , at a time in soviet histori when the hard red leather-bound document are be burn by demonstr . 
 lens sold for long-term wear come in a hard-plat case or glass vial that last the entir life of the len . 
 de-thatch and aerat hard-pack turf area and appli a fertil to carri the lawn through winter . 
 there are the rose , unexpect dot of color on a neutral ground ; and a play mural soften the hard line of the central corridor in the main wing . 
 she also said their hard shoe and the squeaki pram wheel annoy her . 
 in fine , dri weather this mode of travel was not unpleas , when compar with the heavi vehicl of europ and the hard english turnpik ; but when spring rain drew the frost from the ground the road becam near impass , and in winter , when the river froze , a serious peril was ad , for the susquehanna or the north river at paulus hook must be cross in an open boat , -- an affair of hour at best , sometim lead to fatal accid . 
 when the heat return , the sand is bake into a hard crust capabl of support tank , complic ani u.s. attack . 
 yet when you come upon the stun `` eclat , `` with it hard chrome surfac pleat into delic bow that stretch allur across the wall , you understand her particular eye for beauti . 
 last week 's rail journey of a retir southern pacif steam locomot from south san francisco down the peninsula on it way to sacramento , remind me , fond i want you to know , of trip to the citi on ugli , soot-stain car with hard seat and drink `` fountain '' fill with warm water . 
 the terrain they will have to plod through is most flat desert , with both loos and hard pack sand , but it rise into the mutla ridg just north of kuwait citi , where ani climact tank battl would probabl be wage . 
 grain and soybean : wheat-futur price jump on rumor that the soviet union plan to buy 300 ,000 ton of u.s. hard red winter wheat at $ 99 a ton , the highest price it has paid in two year , said daniel bass , a grain analyst at gnp commod inc. , chicago . 
 you re in a real rock and a hard place , `` la russa said . 
 the design tri sever approach use the hard-shel mammal as an emblem includ an earli one san sunglass but with four cowboy boot . 
 `` she had this hard edg to her , and i did n't like her that way. '' 
 but hard-sid luggag , he say , is the eleg type that peopl carri in the 1920s and 1930s . 
 onc your tummi is hard enough , they ll stop the faucet and push on your tummi so you ll throw up all the water. '' 
 enter the cable-support fabric dome , which with insul cost an averag $ 13 million -- still about a third less than hard shell . 
 hard graze his knuckl . 
 he ad that the inject system also need to be redesign , use harder tungsten carbid materi . 
 the dogloo is made of two sheet of hard plastic with nitrogen bubbl in between for insul . 
 the chicken , frozen hard as stone , smack mani refuge on the head . 
 in a heat hous , howev , more water is advis , as if the plant are kept too dri , they tend to becom so hard that the stem are slow to `` break '' in spring . 
 scherer still make hard shell capsul oversea . 
 `` you put a hard wax on the base of a fiberglass board for speed , `` heitmann explain as we walk across east cliff drive toward the stair that lead to the ocean . 
 it 's flat-sol , low-heel and has a littl more comfort fit -- like a tenni shoe with a hard sole , `` say joe figueroa , vice presid of sale and market for the fort worth-bas compani , which provid all the boot in the movi . 
 the hard freez last decemb gave the peoni extra fine bloom this year . 
 common practic now is to cultiv rot-resist tomato , harvest them while they are still green and hard , and gas them to make them look red . 
 formosan termit have harder mandibl , the better for tear off chunk of soft metal , and their coloni run to the ten of million , compar with the subterranean who are content to stay in the hundr of thousand . 
 all three varieti have what i call a good crunch factor -- crunchi enough to hold up under dunk , but not so hard that you feel as if you were high tackl by ronni lott . 
 `` he was n't big by today 's standard -- he was 5-11 and 185 pound -- but he was rock hard . 
 ( box ) as the resin bead remov the miner , they slowli get satur with `` hard '' materi . 
 `` it 's not like peopl did n't know that rubber get hard at low temperatur . 
 on the flip side , too much light or too much fertil can make a plant too compact with tight , hard and brittl center . 
 `` we ve gone from be between a rock and a hard place to be between a dog and a hydrant , `` board member clark redek said . 
 q my new 1990 nissan hard bodi pickup throw out heavi , black smoke in the cool morn . 
 good look , hard bodi , cloth , money , car , possess , etc. , do n't even make the list. '' 
 cavern depth , clutter with antiqu , echo to her hard heel as she walk direct to the offic in the rear and took the seat at his desk . 
 the handl is a thick combin of smooth curv and hard line . 
 i ll return to school as long as it 's not a crowd campus , i do n't need a park permit , have to sit in a crowd classroom in a chair made from recycl hard plastic , watch televis , read a text , or be requir to do homework . 
 if onli the big chees had stroll through the airport as i was bed down on a hard plastic chair for half a night , i could have told him a thing or two about `` friend , `` old and new . 
 he had a moustach of sweat , a hard , factori mouth , and blue , unwil eye . 
 `` you can serv it as an appet , entre , veget and dessert , use it when it 's hard and green , soft and ripe , and at everi stage in between. '' 
 now in it 10th print , the book has sold 155 ,000 copi in hard cover sinc april and has been among the 10 best-sel book in the countri sinc june , astound both mr. hirsch and his publish , houghton mifflin co . 
 `` we re caught between a rock and a hard place where investor are concern , tri to figur out what this trade number mean , '' mr. greenwald said . 
 marbl cherub , for exampl , and carv marbl fireplac had been attack with hard blunt object . 
 hoya would be the plural mean , `` hard as rocks. '' 
 despit all the effort to sell `` charm school , '' mr. hoffman conced that so far waldenbook ' hard-cov sale of the book have total onli 9 ,000. -lrb- warner wo n't disclos overal sale but say it print just under 100 ,000 hard-cov copi and plan 1.2 million in paperback. -rrb- 
 older model , made out of a hard , stiff rubber , provid no spring and forc the ampute to pull his artifici leg through each step with his hip . 
 athlet learn sudden , with one hamstr , one achill tendon , what the rest of us learn more slowli : that the bodi betray , and that our skull are hard becaus they protect the onli part that realli mean anyth . 
 oil develop hard , smooth film when they dri and form resinlik substanc . 
 when buy radish , look for firm , hard-flesh and unblemish one . 
 in 1986 , bantam spent $ 250 ,000 for `` showdown , '' the highest price paid for north american hard-cov right to a foreign novelist at the time . 
 bean are toss about in a motion much like that of a cloth dryer and coat with sugar and color until their hard , shini shell develop . 
 we feel caught between a rock and a hard place . 
 import of a hard , abras resist knife materi like the carboloy employ in the hesiomet immedi becom appar . 
 paint , hard : brush with hot vinegar . 
 `` oh , i rememb the strawberri ' from slide on hard clay with no pad . 
 `` prior convict '' find jansson , onc a red-diap babi , now a disaffect lawyer , caught between a rock and a hard place . 
 when an object was place in the patient 's hand , he had no difficulti determin whether it was warm or cold , sharp or blunt , rough or smooth , flexibl , soft , or hard ; and he could tell , simpli by the feel of it , whether it was made of wood , iron , cloth , rubber , and so on . 
 `` for dessert , you can not improv on hard cooki on which to sharpen your teeth or to dunk in ani linger wine . 
 the fenc are a lot harder in oakland than there were in portland , ore . 
 north carolina has been a leader in the polici of retreat , believ it is better to let beach move natur than to fight the ocean with sea wall , jetti and other hard structur . 
 unlik relat soft canva or polyest wallpap line , veneer wall cover are relat hard when appli with adhes ; a finger will not leav a depress . 
 but then , when she first sat down , i did n't notic the paper bag she carri -- the bag fill with individu wrap hard candi , into which she steadili dip her hand . 
 she would not lie relax and peac , as though she were rest , but iron hard , as though she were still fight . 
 scar tissu has made his right hand brick-hard . 
 the basic rule is this : the harder the materi and the larger the drill diamet , the slower should the speed be . 
 a good sever feet around the pool should be neither greensward nor wood , but good hard pavement . 
 to speed the cool process , you can put the ganach in the freezer , but you must check it to make sure it doe n't becom too hard to scoop out with a teaspoon . 
 the biggest cut were made in the at & t pc 6300 plus line ; the price of an entri model with a singl floppi disk drive fell 38 % to $ 1 ,590 , and the price of the top-of-the-lin model with a `` hard '' disk store the equival of 20 ,000 page of data was cut 29 % to $ 3 ,065 . 
 with it attent to cultur and histori , it concern for the state 's fragil coastal environ , and it visual layer of line-art , photograph and map , the `` guid '' -lrb- edit by madg caughman and joann s. ginsberg , univers of california press , $ 29.95 hard-cov , $ 14.95 paperback -rrb- emerg as a fulli realiz work -- one that may be fundament imposs to improv upon . 
 for a hard kernel of uncertainti chafe beneath our well-b , mr. presid . 
 in north america , the tortilla is often fri hard . 
 onion bulb ca n't grow and expand in hard , adob soil . 
 the drought has hit durum wheat hard and other spring wheat even harder . 
 1 ounc hard chees , slice ( cheddar , swiss or fontina ) ; 1 slice whole wheat bread , toast ; 1 tablespoon salsa ; place chees on top of toast bread on microwave-proof plate . 
 the combin was suppos to make first republicbank texa 's domin financi institut ; instead , it $ 24.1 billion loan portfolio has wither in the state 's hard-scrabbl economi . 
 cut piec on plaster board to dri to firm leather-hard state . 
 while roper declin to comment further on it chang of heart , mr. sankey said that `` the board was caught between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 seed of hard , fibrous , stoni fruit , call nut , provid high concentr food , oil , and other materi of valu . 
 the list includ anyth by jacquelin susann , plus all diet book , `` garfield '' book , complet crossword puzzl book , ani paperback unless it 's unavail in hard cover , and selfhelp book . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , ; mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , ; pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 the unlucki man in the middl sail into a side wall , while the ball ricochet off the hard plastic divid protect the wide-ey spectat from such crazi . 
 enter , if you pleas , 35 comfi littl cabin in the wood -- specif 35 littl tent cabin in the huckleberri campground area of the big basin redwood state park , just a rock and a hard place north of boulder creek off highway 9 . 
 look for good qualiti import oliv , prosciutto and other slice meat , italian hard and soft chees , prepar salad plus focaccia and other bread . 
 here are some tip to help you enjoy garlic : ; ( check ) buy -- clove should be big , plump and hard . 
 ( most hard-sid cooler , unless they are vacuum bottl , specifi that they are not to be use for hot foods. ) 
 it 's a bold gambl in the hard-scrabbl economi of texa , but the fdic also grant the north carolina compani substanti protect against further texa loan loss . 
 the biscotti from my youth were lemon yellow , tast most of anis and were as hard as a rock . 
 the field is too far away , too mani seat are hard wooden plank , and that `` wacki , hilari '' stanford band has becom unhip and bore . 
 when the second coat begin to set ( get hard ) , trowel it with a wood float , work in a circular motion . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 `` i 'd alway had a hard edg to me , which was intensifi by the year i spent in vietnam , `` he said . 
 i almost never buy new hard cover book becaus i ca n't afford them . 
 there 's magic -- food that get soft when cook ( carrot and potato ) , food that get hard when cook ( egg and cooki dough ) , food that metamorphos ( cream into butter , egg white into meringu ) , food that shape-shift ( popcorn , homini , tortilla and polenta ) . 
 one admir the invent interplay of hard , tuski form and vulner belli without be in the least move by the tortur . 
 after share a deep fri combo appet ( $ 7.95 ) , whose fish and shellfish were thick bread , fri hard and almost indistinguish , we were pleasant surpris to find that `` saute scallop '' meant a larg portion in a hot oval bake dish , float in a sauc of butter , garlic , white wine and lemon , garnish with parsley and grill green onion and serv with mushroom over rice , and that `` bake swordfish '' did not mean dried-out . 
 may be person on back while clay is leather hard . 
 it bestknown author is erma bombeck , whose book have sold more than 10 million copi in hard-cov and paperback . 
 ( box ) the peppermil , 2909 lakesid , santa clara , ( 408 ) 988-3282 and 10690 n. de anza blvd. , cupertino , ( 408 ) 996-7750 , look like a 50s vision of the futur : mirror ceil , black and chrome , neon strip light , hard surfac . 
 on the left were pro-labor forc alli with the develop , includ sever hard-hat construct worker . 
 ( check ) no. 4 arantxa sanchez vicario show sign of hope in win her first titl of the year saturday in washington , but befor that , she 'd never won a hard-court tournament . 
 the ice-cream fork would seem to contradict miss manner ' assert that ice cream should be eaten with a spoon , but -- fool you ! -- it actual is a spoon , with a veri round bowl , onli with fork-lik tine at the end for subdu brick hard ice cream . 
 on his own garag door he found that the open revers when it struck the hard block but crush a cardboard box -- a materi that one assum more close repres peopl . 
 scientist have known for year that larger bodi , such as the moon , have a soil-lik surfac , but object as small as gaspra were thought to have rock-hard surfac . 
 surfac key : frm pkd & equal ; firm pack , hrd pkd & equal ; hard pack , mch grm & equal ; machin groom , pkd pwdr & equal ; pack powder , pwdr & equal ; powder . 
 they cost an averag $ 9 million -lrb- about half as much as hard dome -rrb- and let some sunlight in -- as much as 30 % with newer fabric . 
 possess no outer fortif , no hard shell of confid ; they had enough difficulti get from day to day , let alon have an aw crime thrust upon them . 
 is use for make button and other small , hard object of turneri . 
 the jisr hajar of faraya is an ellipt arch of hard stone , slight obliqu but with regular abut . 
 the san jose museum of art will showcas post-minimalist lynda beng , who made a name for herself 20 year ago with suppl sculpture-paint hybrid -- metal `` sparkl '' knot , cover in gold leaf , which defi the minimalist mandat that sculptur had to be hard , geometr and rigid . 
 piti the poor hard-cov . 
 some of canada 's wheat custom reli for mill on canada 's high-grad , high-protein , hard red spring wheat . 
 sinc the former white hous chief of staff publish his memoir monday in time magazin and in hard cover , astrolog have been exceed difficult to tune out , turn off or disregard . 
 ( box ) as the resin bead remov the miner , they slowli get satur with `` hard '' materi . 
 ( hbox ) ; some matzo ball are hard , some fall apart , but marci 's mom , aileen gugenheim , guarante this recip , which has been hand down from generat to generat . 
 ( box ) wait to cut asparagus fern until they ve turn complet brown , usual after the first hard frost . 
 the remaind would be so-cal hard good , which includ stereo , televis set and electron equip . 
 rememb , this is a curvi road with few hard shoulder . 
 the hulk , bald foreman whom the folk saw fight qawi is a differ fella from the hard-muscl young champ whose place in histori rest larg on two fight , one that he won and one he lost . 
 we student are learn how to take note while stand or sit on hard , cold tile . 
 the futon is good for you , i insist , becaus it 's good for the back when the bed is hard and firm . 
 a love whose flesh has been boil off , a clean , cold , hard , white , bone-lik love. '' 
 ( box ) the shell should be hard when pinch . 
 nor was it enough for slum-dwel in huaycan , outsid lima , where treatment is free , but patient must reclin on hard bench or dirti sheet and bring along their own toilet paper . 
 blister could be prevent from form by rub a work blister immedi with ani hard nonpoison substanc . 
 did 80 mile an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shack . 
 the hard shell of nut might make you think they are a good stabl foodstuff , but the high fat content of the meat make them suscept to rancid . 
 should there be a law prohibit hard floor ? 
 the spray kill germ and virus on hard surfac , such as toilet seat , wash basin , door handl and telephon , it manufactur say . 
 deck ; a new , comprehens book on deck build is `` deck , `` by tim snyder ( $ 26.95 hard cover , rodal press ) . 
 but latin american and west indian use banana when hard and green , when squishili soft and brown , and at everi stage between . 
 like amoeba , plasmodia can enter hard , resist rest state , call sclerotia , when condit are bad . 
 courier look as comfort on the hard court at the nation tenni center as he did on the clay at roland garro . 
 reader not onli smell the linse oil , hard soap and tallow candl of the priori but quick are caught up in the layer of friendship and animos that exist among the young novic , forbidden `` particular affect '' with their sister . 
 it current centerpiec is the star electr vibrat , a black-and-chrom devic about the size and shape of a mediev mace that come complet with carri case , a varieti of hard-rubb massag head and an instruct manual . 
 excav of the floor of the lock follow up the complet hard core drain in 15 ft section , the trench sheet be remov and a 2 ft thick mass concret slab of 7.4 : 1 total aggreg cement ratio be emplac to within 3 ft of each wall . 
 york also believ that double-wal , hard-sid cooler like littl igloo , thermo brand and such are a good bet becaus the two wall are an effici way to use air 's excel insul properti . 
 the palm was rough with hard callous , but it rest ever so light on my eye . 
 the unsettl debt market and propos feder reserv board rule on capit have put bank between a rock and hard place . 
 kris bower , the advertis director for oakley , a compani that make the wraparound sunglass , said oakley offer 100 percent uv protect and that they are made with polycarbon lens , a hard , plastic-lik materi . 
 the control energi is mark , and also the use of what yeat demand -- `` the intellectu surpris word which is also the correct word '' : `` warm fume , `` `` a hard , factori mouth , `` `` big-potato-bum man. '' 
 when the surfac is sand or gravel , the gold will settl through it over time until it come to some barrier that stop it movement , such as hard clay . 
 oak , one of the hardest tree in california , is valu for it long burn in the hearth . 
 and he acknowledg the compani 's inabl to refin it $ 1.4 billion debt from that deal `` put us between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 in the bay area , the soil is most hard clay , and the best way to loosen up this compact soil is to dig in huge amount of compost , redwood soil condition or other organ soil amend . 
 `` they re veri hard but can have a lot of crack and fractur , and sometim piec will break off. '' 
 robert joedick , an analyst for shearson lehman brother inc. , call the chemic bank agreement `` an import achiev '' for the pilot that `` put the compani 's board of director between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 jio said , look at the men dress in orang vest and white hard-hat , `` it kind of make you sad when you see that thing . . . but , progress . 
 by 1990 , his self-publish pamphlet on the masculin crisi had been compil and reissu in hard cover by a lead publish -- and the book , `` iron john , `` quick scale the new york time best-sel list . 
 and structural-packag design develop `` advanc microwav packag '' with metal foil that encourag crisp and `` guidanc system '' that leav ice cream rock hard while the salisburi steak sizzl . 
 conscious of the fact that your feet hurt , that the citi pavement are hard . 
 booz ask the judg for a stay that would have kept the babi in foster care pend the appeal , but she refus , say the child can not remain `` caught between a rock and a hard place. '' 
 earli , hard dome necessit round stadium for support -- an inconveni shape for both basebal and footbal . 
 toy between hard cover . 
 she told of a friend who came to her two day after a physic `` and ask if i 'd look at . . . 'a hard place ' `` on the side of her breast . 
 it can absorb stain from food and tobacco , and it can combin with calcium and other miner in saliva to form tartar , a rock-hard coat . 
 the latest version ( gv-300 , $ 1 , 400 ) , about a year old , is the size of a hard-cov book , and some fear it may one day replac book . 
 to those of us who have spent year observ these anim , the general rule is that they place a flat rock on their chest against which they bang hard shell mollusc such as clam . 
 the avon paperback , howev , has a differ subtitl from the one that appear on hard cover last april . 
 on monday and wednesday , multipl accid caus miles- long morn backup befor our hard-hat friend even went to work . 
 the loud music , bright color and hard , slick seat in a fast-food outlet , for exampl , are intend both to entertain and to trigger an eat-and-run respons . 
 all too often , road-wizen artist who endur year of second-bil status and final find late success emerg with a hard shell of self-right bitter . 
 note : drage are hard candi use to decor bake goods. -- -- from `` rose 's christma ; cooki '' by rose levi ; beranbaum ( morrow ) . 
 the bear and orangutan play with `` boomer ball , `` hard plastic sphere about the size of a volleybal fill with nut and raisin that rattl around insid and sometim fall out to be eager eaten . 
 a accord to mario solomon , a graduat student at georgetown , the term hoya deriv from the greek word for `` hard as a rock. '' 
 `` but the other brush , with their hard bristl and tini head , are onli good for clean the small , white part of your teeth. '' 
 if the pear are a hard varieti , you may need to pre-cook them in a littl water until they are soft . 
 a cushion can help allevi the discomfort experienc sit on a hard surfac . 
 he 's a kind of leo buscaglia of the hard court , embrac his sweati charg at everi opportun . 
 ( while they are warm , they will feel a bit soft , but when they cool they will becom crisp and hard. ) 
 barbara perri say she has , howev , thought of tri to deep-fri some -- a proposit that may strike devote as akin to hard-boil caviar . 
 it is made of thin , hard yellow ware with fine red grit . 
 unit with hard plastic side forc water to travel the length of the filter , insur longer contact with the filter . 
 the feder govern want to leas portion of the outer continent shelf in norton sound , includ 1 , 000 disput acr , for hard rock miner recoveri , with gold the primari target . 
 `` she did n't want a hard edg , she want someth soft and dreamy. '' 
 beat the towel on a hard surfac to break the husk loos from the kernel . 
 `` there 's no doubt that this fasb propos leav us between a rock and a hard place , '' say the benefit manag for a major manufactur compani . 
 on the left were pro-labor forc alli with the develop , includ sever hard-hat construct worker . 
 virtual anyth with a hard surfac will do to colon . 
 that encourag other sit-in , lead to the replac of the recept area 's comfort sofa and overstuf chair with hard wood bench . 
 `` they re caught between a rock and a hard place . '' 
 ( check ) if the weight of a hard-shel helmet strain your neck , pick a thin shell . 
 when hideji takemasa think about comput , he doe n't imagin hard plastic box squat on desk top . 
 goalkeep ; face mask -- it has evolv from the jason mask you see in horror movi to awir cage that attach to the helmet or a high-tech , hard plastic mask-helmet combin . 
 bumpi , hard-skin , irregular shape squash typifi american fall and winter harvest food at it best . 
 true noir believ also can purchas a `` new '' -lrb- first time publish in hard cover -rrb- novel by dashiel hammett , `` woman in the dark : a novel of danger romanc '' -lrb- knopf , 76 page , $ 15.95 -rrb- . 
 if necessari , trim it by use the straightedg and a fresh knife blade , or by rub it against fine-grit sandpap laid flat on a hard work surfac . 
 for instanc , i paint a plant walkway on a hard surfac to save water . 
 i do n't think i have a hard nose , `` he say , stroke the bridg of his nose , `` and i love nonsense. '' 
 someday you ll be walk through the forest in the dead of winter and you ll stub your boot on someth hard : a frog ! 
 now we were sleep on a bed that was so hard and so flat that i felt as if stake out for bird of prey in the desert . 
 just befor serv , crisp tortilla as abov but leav hard and flat . 
 c. edward acker , pan am 's chairman , remain caught between a rock and a hard place . 
 befor mr. hoffman enter the busi a decad ago , a hard-cov fiction best seller sold 150 ,000 copi . 
 replac lead and scribe for mark metal , glass and other hard materi are store in the tape rule . 
 if you re drive a hard-top car , stay with it . 
 harvest all the fruit befor the first hard freez . 
 never let the soil dri out , watch for whitefli and powderi mildew , feed generous with a 10 percent nitrogen fertil everi other week , prop the ripen pumpkin up on board to prevent rot the bottom and harvest them when the rind start get hard . 
 these cooki start out hard and soften as they matur . 
 becker match lendl 's nine ace , but won this match with his more dynam play at the net , frolick on the hard court as if it were wimbledon 's grass . 
 it 's all done with bean curd -- hard and soft , fri and steam and broil and who know what . 
 you just have to work a littl harder to keep the relationship go . '' 
 they found that a way to get a pretti tomato to market was to pick hard , unrip one and gas them red . 
 the control energi is mark , and also the use of what yeat demand -- `` the intellectu surpris word which is also the correct word '' : `` warm fume , `` `` a hard , factori mouth , `` `` big-potato-bum man. '' 
 mclaughlin recommend dure the class that biker ride down a steep , hard-pack dirt hill do most of the brake with the back brake and use the front brake spare . 
 the hyper pad is a hard-surfac mousepad that contain the same heat-sensit liquid crystal . 
 stich , stretch to five set in the third round by malivai washington , look so comfort on wimbledon 's grass but has n't adjust to the medium-fast hard court at the nation tenni center . 
 if someon is move from a larger apart to a smaller one , mr. thometz may also weed out hard-cov classic that are readili avail in paperback . 
 instead , tie a cushion on a hard headboard for comfort sit in bed. '' 
 `` no way i 'm go to miss that , even kick a ball that feel like a brick on a rock-hard field against the wind. '' 
 there is no question but that the process of wash fabric involv a number of phenomena which are relat togeth in an extrem complic way and that these phenomena and their interrel are not well understood at the present , this section attempt to present briefli an up-to-d pictur of the physic chemistri of wash either fabric or hard surfac . 
 so-cal veget ivori is the hard endosperm of the egg-siz seed . 
 mr. condello onc said the worst thing about the state capitol was it hard floor , the tile , marbl corridor and stone stair that he trampl over each work day for a decad . 
 remov the hard outer shell of the acorn with a nut cracker . 
 a harder skin will allow the fruit to store better . 
 sinc the 1950s , it has cost twice the nation averag to build a mile of highway through this hard-scrabbl state . 
 one exampl : the hard stick of the timpanist virtual turn the open minut into a kettle-drum concerto . 
 